---
Aliases: [1 Samuel 16]
previous: ['1 Sam 15']
up: ['1 Samuel']
next: ['1 Sam 17']
---
# 1 Samuel 16

***


###### 1 
Now the Lord said to Samuel, "How long will you mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? Fill your horn with oil, and go; I am sending you to Jesse the Bethlehemite. For I have [^a]provided Myself a king among his sons." 

###### 2 
And Samuel said, "How can I go? If Saul hears _it,_ he will kill me." But the Lord said, "Take a heifer with you, and say, 'I have come to sacrifice to the Lord.' 

###### 3 
Then invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what you shall do; you shall anoint for Me the one I name to you." 

###### 4 
So Samuel did what the Lord said, and went to Bethlehem. And the elders of the town trembled at his coming, and said, "Do you come peaceably?" 

###### 5 
And he said, "Peaceably; I have come to sacrifice to the Lord. Sanctify[^b] yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice." Then he consecrated Jesse and his sons, and invited them to the sacrifice. 

###### 6 
So it was, when they came, that he looked at Eliab and said, "Surely the Lord's anointed _is_ before Him!" 

###### 7 
But the Lord said to Samuel, "Do not look at his appearance or at his physical stature, because I have [^c]refused him. For[^d] _the Lord does_ not _see_ as man sees; for man looks at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart." 

###### 8 
So Jesse called Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, "Neither has the Lord chosen this one." 

###### 9 
Then Jesse made Shammah pass by. And he said, "Neither has the Lord chosen this one." 

###### 10 
Thus Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, "The Lord has not chosen these." 

###### 11 
And Samuel said to Jesse, "Are all the young men here?" Then he said, "There remains yet the youngest, and there he is, keeping the sheep." And Samuel said to Jesse, "Send and bring him. For we will not [^e]sit down till he comes here." 

###### 12 
So he sent and brought him in. Now he _was_ ruddy, with [^f]bright eyes, and good-looking. And the Lord said, "Arise, anoint him; for this _is_ the one!" 

###### 13 
Then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brothers; and the Spirit of the Lord came upon David from that day forward. So Samuel arose and went to Ramah. ## A Distressing Spirit Troubles Saul 

###### 14 
But the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and a distressing spirit from the Lord troubled him. 

###### 15 
And Saul's servants said to him, "Surely, a distressing spirit from God is troubling you. 

###### 16 
Let our master now command your servants, _who are_ before you, to seek out a man _who is_ a skillful player on the harp. And it shall be that he will play it with his hand when the [^g]distressing spirit from God is upon you, and you shall be well." 

###### 17 
So Saul said to his servants, [^h]"Provide me now a man who can play well, and bring _him_ to me." 

###### 18 
Then one of the servants answered and said, "Look, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite, _who is_ skillful in playing, a mighty man of valor, a man of war, prudent in speech, and a handsome person; and the Lord _is_ with him." 

###### 19 
Therefore Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and said, "Send me your son David, who _is_ with the sheep." 

###### 20 
And Jesse took a donkey _loaded with_ bread, a skin of wine, and a young goat, and sent _them_ by his son David to Saul. 

###### 21 
So David came to Saul and stood before him. And he loved him greatly, and he became his armorbearer. 

###### 22 
Then Saul sent to Jesse, saying, "Please let David stand before me, for he has found favor in my sight." 

###### 23 
And so it was, whenever the spirit from God was upon Saul, that David would take a harp and play _it_ with his hand. Then Saul would become refreshed and well, and the distressing spirit would depart from him. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Samuel 16:1 Lit. _seen_ [^b]: 1 Samuel 16:5 _Consecrate_ [^c]: 1 Samuel 16:7 _rejected_ [^d]: 1 Samuel 16:7 LXX _For God does not see as man sees;_ Tg. _It is not by the appearance of a man;_ Vg. _Nor do I judge according to the looks of a man_ [^e]: 1 Samuel 16:11 So with LXX, Vg.; MT _turn around;_ Tg., Syr. _turn away_ [^f]: 1 Samuel 16:12 Lit. _beautiful_ [^g]: 1 Samuel 16:16 Lit. _evil_ [^h]: 1 Samuel 16:17 Lit. _Look now for a man for me_
