---
Aliases: [1 Samuel 12]
previous: ['1 Sam 11']
up: ['1 Samuel']
next: ['1 Sam 13']
---
# 1 Samuel 12

***


###### 1 
Now Samuel said to all Israel: "Indeed I have [^a]heeded your voice in all that you said to me, and have made a king over you. 

###### 2 
And now here is the king, walking before you; and I am old and grayheaded, and look, my sons _are_ with you. I have walked before you from my childhood to this day. 

###### 3 
Here I am. Witness against me before the Lord and before His anointed: Whose ox have I taken, or whose donkey have I taken, or whom have I cheated? Whom have I oppressed, or from whose hand have I received _any_ bribe with which to blind my eyes? I will restore _it_ to you." 

###### 4 
And they said, "You have not cheated us or oppressed us, nor have you taken anything from any man's hand." 

###### 5 
Then he said to them, "The Lord _is_ witness against you, and His anointed _is_ witness this day, that you have not found anything in my hand." And they answered, "_He is_ witness." 

###### 6 
Then Samuel said to the people, "_It is_ the Lord who raised up Moses and Aaron, and who brought your fathers up from the land of Egypt. 

###### 7 
Now therefore, stand still, that I may reason with you before the Lord concerning all the righteous acts of the Lord which He did to you and your fathers: 

###### 8 
When Jacob had gone into [^b]Egypt, and your fathers cried out to the Lord, then the Lord sent Moses and Aaron, who brought your fathers out of Egypt and made them dwell in this place. 

###### 9 
And when they forgot the Lord their God, He sold them into the hand of Sisera, commander of the army of Hazor, into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them. 

###### 10 
Then they cried out to the Lord, and said, 'We have sinned, because we have forsaken the Lord and served the Baals and [^c]Ashtoreths; but now deliver us from the hand of our enemies, and we will serve You.' 

###### 11 
And the Lord sent [^d]Jerubbaal, [^e]Bedan, Jephthah, and Samuel,[^f] and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every side; and you dwelt in safety. 

###### 12 
And when you saw that Nahash king of the Ammonites came against you, you said to me, 'No, but a king shall reign over us,' when the Lord your God _was_ your king. 

###### 13 
"Now therefore, here is the king whom you have chosen _and_ whom you have desired. And take note, the Lord has set a king over you. 

###### 14 
If you fear the Lord and serve Him and obey His voice, and do not rebel against the commandment of the Lord, then both you and the king who reigns over you will continue following the Lord your God. 

###### 15 
However, if you do not obey the voice of the Lord, but rebel against the commandment of the Lord, then the hand of the Lord will be against you, as _it was_ against your fathers. 

###### 16 
"Now therefore, stand and see this great thing which the Lord will do before your eyes: 

###### 17 
_Is_ today not the wheat harvest? I will call to the Lord, and He will send thunder and rain, that you may perceive and see that your wickedness _is_ great, which you have done in the sight of the Lord, in asking a king for yourselves." 

###### 18 
So Samuel called to the Lord, and the Lord sent thunder and rain that day; and all the people greatly feared the Lord and Samuel. 

###### 19 
And all the people said to Samuel, "Pray for your servants to the Lord your God, that we may not die; for we have added to all our sins the evil of asking a king for ourselves." 

###### 20 
Then Samuel said to the people, "Do not fear. You have done all this wickedness; yet do not turn aside from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart. 

###### 21 
And do not turn aside; for _then you would go_ after empty things which cannot profit or deliver, for they _are_ nothing. 

###### 22 
For the Lord will not forsake His people, for His great name's sake, because it has pleased the Lord to make you His people. 

###### 23 
Moreover, as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you; but I will teach you the good and the right way. 

###### 24 
Only fear the Lord, and serve Him in truth with all your heart; for consider what great things He has done for you. 

###### 25 
But if you still do wickedly, you shall be swept away, both you and your king." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Samuel 12:1 _listened to_ [^b]: 1 Samuel 12:8 So with MT, Tg., Vg.; LXX adds _and the Egyptians afflicted them_ [^c]: 1 Samuel 12:10 Images of Canaanite goddesses [^d]: 1 Samuel 12:11 Gideon, cf. [Judg. 6:25–32]; Syr. _Deborah;_ Tg. _Gideon_ [^e]: 1 Samuel 12:11 LXX, Syr. _Barak;_ Tg. _Simson_ [^f]: 1 Samuel 12:11 Syr. _Simson_
