---
Aliases: [1 Samuel 20]
previous: ['1 Sam 19']
up: ['1 Samuel']
next: ['1 Sam 21']
---
# 1 Samuel 20

***


###### 1 
Then David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and went and said to Jonathan, "What have I done? What _is_ my iniquity, and what _is_ my sin before your father, that he seeks my life?" 

###### 2 
So Jonathan said to him, "By no means! You shall not die! Indeed, my father will do nothing either great or small without first telling me. And why should my father hide this thing from me? It _is_ not _so!_" 

###### 3 
Then David took an oath again, and said, "Your father certainly knows that I have found favor in your eyes, and he has said, 'Do not let Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved.' But truly, _as_ the Lord lives and _as_ your soul lives, _there is_ but a step between me and death." 

###### 4 
So Jonathan said to David, "Whatever you yourself desire, I will do _it_ for you." 

###### 5 
And David said to Jonathan, "Indeed tomorrow _is_ the New Moon, and I should not fail to sit with the king to eat. But let me go, that I may hide in the field until the third _day_ at evening. 

###### 6 
If your father misses me at all, then say, 'David earnestly asked _permission_ of me that he might run over to Bethlehem, his city, for _there is_ a yearly sacrifice there for all the family.' 

###### 7 
If he says thus: '_It is_ well,' your servant will be safe. But if he is very angry, be sure that evil is determined by him. 

###### 8 
Therefore you shall deal kindly with your servant, for you have brought your servant into a covenant of the Lord with you. Nevertheless, if there is iniquity in me, kill me yourself, for why should you bring me to your father?" 

###### 9 
But Jonathan said, "Far be it from you! For if I knew certainly that evil was determined by my father to come upon you, then would I not tell you?" 

###### 10 
Then David said to Jonathan, "Who will tell me, or what _if_ your father answers you roughly?" 

###### 11 
And Jonathan said to David, "Come, let us go out into the field." So both of them went out into the field. 

###### 12 
Then Jonathan said to David: "The Lord God of Israel _is witness!_ When I have [^a]sounded out my father sometime tomorrow, _or_ the third _day,_ and indeed _there is_ good toward David, and I do not send to you and tell you, 

###### 13 
may the Lord do so and much more to Jonathan. But if it pleases my father _to do_ you evil, then I will report it to you and send you away, that you may go in safety. And the Lord be with you as He has been with my father. 

###### 14 
And you shall not only show me the kindness of the Lord while I still live, that I may not die; 

###### 15 
but you shall not [^b]cut off your kindness from my [^c]house forever, no, not when the Lord has cut off every one of the enemies of David from the face of the earth." 

###### 16 
So Jonathan made _a covenant_ with the [^d]house of David, _saying,_ "Let the Lord require _it_ at the hand of David's enemies." 

###### 17 
Now Jonathan again caused David to vow, because he loved him; for he loved him as he loved his own soul. 

###### 18 
Then Jonathan said to David, "Tomorrow _is_ the New Moon; and you will be missed, because your seat will be empty. 

###### 19 
And _when_ you have stayed three days, go down quickly and come to the place where you hid on the day of the deed; and remain by the stone Ezel. 

###### 20 
Then I will shoot three arrows to the side, as though I shot at a target; 

###### 21 
and there I will send a lad, _saying,_ 'Go, find the arrows.' If I expressly say to the lad, 'Look, the arrows _are_ on this side of you; get them and come'--then, as the Lord lives, _there is_ safety for you and no harm. 

###### 22 
But if I say thus to the young man, 'Look, the arrows _are_ beyond you'--go your way, for the Lord has sent you away. 

###### 23 
And as for the matter which you and I have spoken of, indeed the Lord _be_ between you and me forever." 

###### 24 
Then David hid in the field. And when the New Moon had come, the king sat down to eat the feast. 

###### 25 
Now the king sat on his seat, as at other times, on a seat by the wall. And [^e]Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, but David's place was empty. 

###### 26 
Nevertheless Saul did not say anything that day, for he thought, "Something has happened to him; he _is_ unclean, surely he _is_ unclean." 

###### 27 
And it happened the next day, the second _day_ of the month, that David's place was empty. And Saul said to Jonathan his son, "Why has the son of Jesse not come to eat, either yesterday or today?" 

###### 28 
So Jonathan answered Saul, "David earnestly asked _permission_ of me _to go_ to Bethlehem. 

###### 29 
And he said, 'Please let me go, for our family has a sacrifice in the city, and my brother has commanded me _to be there._ And now, if I have found favor in your eyes, please let me get away and see my brothers.' Therefore he has not come to the king's table." 

###### 30 
Then Saul's anger was aroused against Jonathan, and he said to him, "You son of a perverse, rebellious _woman!_ Do I not know that you have chosen the son of Jesse to your own shame and to the shame of your mother's nakedness? 

###### 31 
For as long as the son of Jesse lives on the earth, you shall not be established, nor your kingdom. Now therefore, send and bring him to me, for he [^f]shall surely die." 

###### 32 
And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said to him, "Why should he be killed? What has he done?" 

###### 33 
Then Saul cast a spear at him to [^g]kill him, by which Jonathan knew that it was determined by his father to kill David. 

###### 34 
So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and ate no food the second day of the month, for he was grieved for David, because his father had treated him shamefully. 

###### 35 
And so it was, in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little lad _was_ with him. 

###### 36 
Then he said to his lad, "Now run, find the arrows which I shoot." As the lad ran, he shot an arrow beyond him. 

###### 37 
When the lad had come to the place where the arrow was which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried out after the lad and said, "_Is_ not the arrow beyond you?" 

###### 38 
And Jonathan cried out after the lad, "Make haste, hurry, do not delay!" So Jonathan's lad gathered up the arrows and came back to his master. 

###### 39 
But the lad did not know anything. Only Jonathan and David knew of the matter. 

###### 40 
Then Jonathan gave his [^h]weapons to his lad, and said to him, "Go, carry _them_ to the city." 

###### 41 
As soon as the lad had gone, David arose from _a place_ toward the south, fell on his face to the ground, and bowed down three times. And they kissed one another; and they wept together, but David more so. 

###### 42 
Then Jonathan said to David, "Go in peace, since we have both sworn in the name of the Lord, saying, 'May the Lord be between you and me, and between your descendants and my descendants, forever.' " So he arose and departed, and Jonathan went into the city. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Samuel 20:12 _searched out_ [^b]: 1 Samuel 20:15 _stop being kind_ [^c]: 1 Samuel 20:15 _family_ [^d]: 1 Samuel 20:16 _family_ [^e]: 1 Samuel 20:25 So with MT, Syr., Tg., Vg.; LXX _he sat across from Jonathan_ [^f]: 1 Samuel 20:31 Lit. _is a son of death_ [^g]: 1 Samuel 20:33 _strike him down_ [^h]: 1 Samuel 20:40 _equipment_
