---
Aliases: [1 Samuel 31]
previous: ['1 Sam 30']
up: ['1 Samuel']
---
# 1 Samuel 31

***


###### 1 
Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell slain on Mount Gilboa. 

###### 2 
Then the Philistines followed hard after Saul and his sons. And the Philistines killed Jonathan, Abinadab, and Malchishua, Saul's sons. 

###### 3 
The battle became fierce against Saul. The archers [^a]hit him, and he was severely wounded by the archers. 

###### 4 
Then Saul said to his armorbearer, "Draw your sword, and thrust me through with it, lest these uncircumcised men come and thrust me through and [^b]abuse me." But his armorbearer would not, for he was greatly afraid. Therefore Saul took a sword and fell on it. 

###### 5 
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell on his sword, and died with him. 

###### 6 
So Saul, his three sons, his armorbearer, and all his men died together that same day. 

###### 7 
And when the men of Israel who _were_ on the other side of the valley, and _those_ who _were_ on the other side of the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them. 

###### 8 
So it happened the next day, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his three sons fallen on Mount Gilboa. 

###### 9 
And they cut off his head and stripped off his armor, and sent _word_ throughout the land of the Philistines, to proclaim _it in_ the temple of their idols and among the people. 

###### 10 
Then they put his armor in the temple of the Ashtoreths, and they fastened his body to the wall of Beth[^c] Shan. 

###### 11 
Now when the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul, 

###### 12 
all the valiant men arose and traveled all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth Shan; and they came to Jabesh and burned them there. 

###### 13 
Then they took their bones and buried _them_ under the tamarisk tree at Jabesh, and fasted seven days. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Samuel 31:3 Lit. _found him_ [^b]: 1 Samuel 31:4 _torture_ [^c]: 1 Samuel 31:10 _Beth Shean,_ [Josh. 17:11]
