---
Aliases: [2 Kings 13]
previous: ['2 Kgs 12']
up: ['2 Kings']
next: ['2 Kgs 14']
---
# 2 Kings 13

***


###### 1 
In the twenty-third year of Joash[^a] the son of Ahaziah, king of Judah, Jehoahaz the son of Jehu became king over Israel in Samaria, _and reigned_ seventeen years. 

###### 2 
And he did evil in the sight of the Lord, and followed the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who had made Israel sin. He did not [^b]depart from them. 

###### 3 
Then the anger of the Lord was aroused against Israel, and He delivered them into the hand of Hazael king of Syria, and into the hand of Ben-Hadad the son of Hazael, all _their_ days. 

###### 4 
So Jehoahaz pleaded with the Lord, and the Lord listened to him; for He saw the oppression of Israel, because the king of Syria oppressed them. 

###### 5 
Then the Lord gave Israel a deliverer, so that they escaped from under the hand of the Syrians; and the children of Israel dwelt in their tents as before. 

###### 6 
Nevertheless they did not depart from the sins of the house of Jeroboam, who had made Israel sin, _but_ walked in them; and the [^c]wooden image also remained in Samaria. 

###### 7 
For He left of the army of Jehoahaz only fifty horsemen, ten chariots, and ten thousand foot soldiers; for the king of Syria had destroyed them and made them like the dust at threshing. 

###### 8 
Now the rest of the acts of Jehoahaz, all that he did, and his might, _are_ they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? 

###### 9 
So Jehoahaz [^d]rested with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria. Then [^e]Joash his son reigned in his place. ## Jehoash Reigns in Israel 

###### 10 
In the thirty-seventh year of Joash king of Judah, [^f]Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz became king over Israel in Samaria, _and reigned_ sixteen years. 

###### 11 
And he did evil in the sight of the Lord. He did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel sin, _but_ walked in them. 

###### 12 
Now the rest of the acts of Joash, all that he did, and his might with which he fought against Amaziah king of Judah, _are_ they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? 

###### 13 
So Joash rested[^g] with his fathers. Then Jeroboam sat on his throne. And Joash was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel. ## Death of Elisha 

###### 14 
Elisha had become sick with the illness of which he would die. Then Joash the king of Israel came down to him, and wept over his face, and said, "O my father, my father, the chariots of Israel and their horsemen!" 

###### 15 
And Elisha said to him, "Take a bow and some arrows." So he took himself a bow and some arrows. 

###### 16 
Then he said to the king of Israel, "Put your hand on the bow." So he put his hand _on it,_ and Elisha put his hands on the king's hands. 

###### 17 
And he said, "Open the east window"; and he opened _it._ Then Elisha said, "Shoot"; and he shot. And he said, "The arrow of the Lord's deliverance and the arrow of deliverance from Syria; for you must strike the Syrians at Aphek till you have destroyed _them._" 

###### 18 
Then he said, "Take the arrows"; so he took _them._ And he said to the king of Israel, "Strike the ground"; so he struck three times, and stopped. 

###### 19 
And the man of God was angry with him, and said, "You should have struck five or six times; then you would have struck Syria till you had destroyed _it!_ But now you will strike Syria _only_ three times." 

###### 20 
Then Elisha [^h]died, and they buried him. And the _raiding_ bands from Moab invaded the land in the spring of the year. 

###### 21 
So it was, as they were burying a man, that suddenly they spied a band _of raiders;_ and they put the man in the tomb of Elisha; and when the man was let down and touched the bones of Elisha, he revived and stood on his feet. ## Israel Recaptures Cities from Syria 

###### 22 
And Hazael king of Syria oppressed Israel all the days of Jehoahaz. 

###### 23 
But the Lord was gracious to them, had compassion on them, and regarded them, because of His covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and would not yet destroy them or cast them from His presence. 

###### 24 
Now Hazael king of Syria died. Then Ben-Hadad his son reigned in his place. 

###### 25 
And [^i]Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz recaptured from the hand of Ben-Hadad, the son of Hazael, the cities which he had taken out of the hand of Jehoahaz his father by war. Three times Joash defeated him and recaptured the cities of Israel. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Kings 13:1 _Jehoash,_ [2 Kin. 12:1–18] [^b]: 2 Kings 13:2 Lit. _turn_ [^c]: 2 Kings 13:6 Heb. _Asherah,_ a Canaanite goddess [^d]: 2 Kings 13:9 Died and joined his ancestors [^e]: 2 Kings 13:9 Or _Jehoash_ [^f]: 2 Kings 13:10 _Joash,_ v. [9] [^g]: 2 Kings 13:13 Died and joined his ancestors [^h]: 2 Kings 13:20 Having prophesied at least 55 years [^i]: 2 Kings 13:25 _Joash,_ vv. [12–14], [25]
