---
Aliases: [2 Kings 19]
previous: ['2 Kgs 18']
up: ['2 Kings']
next: ['2 Kgs 20']
---
# 2 Kings 19

***




















###### 1 









When King Hezekiah heard this, he tore his clothes and put on sackcloth and went into the temple of the LORD. 



















###### 2 









He sent Eliakim the palace administrator, Shebna the secretary and the leading priests, all wearing sackcloth, to the prophet Isaiah son of Amoz. 



















###### 3 









They told him, "This is what Hezekiah says: This day is a day of distress and rebuke and disgrace, as when children come to the moment of birth and there is no strength to deliver them. 



















###### 4 









It may be that the LORD your God will hear all the words of the field commander, whom his master, the king of Assyria, has sent to ridicule the living God, and that he will rebuke him for the words the LORD your God has heard. Therefore pray for the remnant that still survives." 



















###### 5 









When King Hezekiah's officials came to Isaiah, 



















###### 6 









Isaiah said to them, "Tell your master, 'This is what the LORD says: Do not be afraid of what you have heard--those words with which the underlings of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me. 



















###### 7 









Listen! When he hears a certain report, I will make him want to return to his own country, and there I will have him cut down with the sword.'" 



















###### 8 









When the field commander heard that the king of Assyria had left Lachish, he withdrew and found the king fighting against Libnah. 



















###### 9 









Now Sennacherib received a report that Tirhakah, the king of Cush,[^a] was marching out to fight against him. So he again sent messengers to Hezekiah with this word: 



















###### 10 









"Say to Hezekiah king of Judah: Do not let the god you depend on deceive you when he says, 'Jerusalem will not be given into the hands of the king of Assyria.' 



















###### 11 









Surely you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all the countries, destroying them completely. And will you be delivered? 



















###### 12 









Did the gods of the nations that were destroyed by my predecessors deliver them--the gods of Gozan, Harran, Rezeph and the people of Eden who were in Tel Assar? 



















###### 13 









Where is the king of Hamath or the king of Arpad? Where are the kings of Lair, Sepharvaim, Hena and Ivvah?" ## Hezekiah's Prayer 



















###### 14 









Hezekiah received the letter from the messengers and read it. Then he went up to the temple of the LORD and spread it out before the LORD. 



















###### 15 









And Hezekiah prayed to the LORD: "LORD, the God of Israel, enthroned between the cherubim, you alone are God over all the kingdoms of the earth. You have made heaven and earth. 



















###### 16 









Give ear, LORD, and hear; open your eyes, LORD, and see; listen to the words Sennacherib has sent to ridicule the living God. 



















###### 17 









"It is true, LORD, that the Assyrian kings have laid waste these nations and their lands. 



















###### 18 









They have thrown their gods into the fire and destroyed them, for they were not gods but only wood and stone, fashioned by human hands. 



















###### 19 









Now, LORD our God, deliver us from his hand, so that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that you alone, LORD, are God." ## Isaiah Prophesies Sennacherib's Fall 



















###### 20 









Then Isaiah son of Amoz sent a message to Hezekiah: "This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says: I have heard your prayer concerning Sennacherib king of Assyria. 



















###### 21 









This is the word that the LORD has spoken against him: "'Virgin Daughter Zion despises you and mocks you. Daughter Jerusalem tosses her head as you flee. 



















###### 22 









Who is it you have ridiculed and blasphemed? Against whom have you raised your voice and lifted your eyes in pride? Against the Holy One of Israel! 



















###### 23 









By your messengers you have ridiculed the Lord. And you have said, "With my many chariots I have ascended the heights of the mountains, the utmost heights of Lebanon. I have cut down its tallest cedars, the choicest of its junipers. I have reached its remotest parts, the finest of its forests. 



















###### 24 









I have dug wells in foreign lands and drunk the water there. With the soles of my feet I have dried up all the streams of Egypt." 



















###### 25 









"'Have you not heard? Long ago I ordained it. In days of old I planned it; now I have brought it to pass, that you have turned fortified cities into piles of stone. 



















###### 26 









Their people, drained of power, are dismayed and put to shame. They are like plants in the field, like tender green shoots, like grass sprouting on the roof, scorched before it grows up. 



















###### 27 









"'But I know where you are and when you come and go and how you rage against me. 



















###### 28 









Because you rage against me and because your insolence has reached my ears, I will put my hook in your nose and my bit in your mouth, and I will make you return by the way you came.' 



















###### 29 









"This will be the sign for you, Hezekiah: "This year you will eat what grows by itself, and the second year what springs from that. But in the third year sow and reap, plant vineyards and eat their fruit. 



















###### 30 









Once more a remnant of the kingdom of Judah will take root below and bear fruit above. 



















###### 31 









For out of Jerusalem will come a remnant, and out of Mount Zion a band of survivors. "The zeal of the LORD Almighty will accomplish this. 



















###### 32 









"Therefore this is what the LORD says concerning the king of Assyria: "'He will not enter this city or shoot an arrow here. He will not come before it with shield or build a siege ramp against it. 



















###### 33 









By the way that he came he will return; he will not enter this city, declares the LORD. 



















###### 34 









I will defend this city and save it, for my sake and for the sake of David my servant.'" 



















###### 35 









That night the angel of the LORD went out and put to death a hundred and eighty-five thousand in the Assyrian camp. When the people got up the next morning--there were all the dead bodies! 



















###### 36 









So Sennacherib king of Assyria broke camp and withdrew. He returned to Nineveh and stayed there. 



















###### 37 









One day, while he was worshiping in the temple of his god Nisrok, his sons Adrammelek and Sharezer killed him with the sword, and they escaped to the land of Ararat. And Esarhaddon his son succeeded him as king. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Kings 19:9 That is, the upper Nile region
