---
Aliases: [2 Samuel 22]
previous: ['2 Sam 21']
up: ['2 Samuel']
next: ['2 Sam 23']
---
# 2 Samuel 22

***




















###### 1 









David sang to the LORD the words of this song when the LORD delivered him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul. 



















###### 2 









He said: "The LORD is my rock, my fortress and my deliverer; 



















###### 3 









my God is my rock, in whom I take refuge, my shield[^a] and the horn[^b] of my salvation. He is my stronghold, my refuge and my savior-- from violent people you save me. 



















###### 4 









"I called to the LORD, who is worthy of praise, and have been saved from my enemies. 



















###### 5 









The waves of death swirled about me; the torrents of destruction overwhelmed me. 



















###### 6 









The cords of the grave coiled around me; the snares of death confronted me. 



















###### 7 









"In my distress I called to the LORD; I called out to my God. From his temple he heard my voice; my cry came to his ears. 



















###### 8 









The earth trembled and quaked, the foundations of the heavens[^c] shook; they trembled because he was angry. 



















###### 9 









Smoke rose from his nostrils; consuming fire came from his mouth, burning coals blazed out of it. 



















###### 10 









He parted the heavens and came down; dark clouds were under his feet. 



















###### 11 









He mounted the cherubim and flew; he soared[^d] on the wings of the wind. 



















###### 12 









He made darkness his canopy around him-- the dark[^e] rain clouds of the sky. 



















###### 13 









Out of the brightness of his presence bolts of lightning blazed forth. 



















###### 14 









The LORD thundered from heaven; the voice of the Most High resounded. 



















###### 15 









He shot his arrows and scattered the enemy, with great bolts of lightning he routed them. 



















###### 16 









The valleys of the sea were exposed and the foundations of the earth laid bare at the rebuke of the LORD, at the blast of breath from his nostrils. 



















###### 17 









"He reached down from on high and took hold of me; he drew me out of deep waters. 



















###### 18 









He rescued me from my powerful enemy, from my foes, who were too strong for me. 



















###### 19 









They confronted me in the day of my disaster, but the LORD was my support. 



















###### 20 









He brought me out into a spacious place; he rescued me because he delighted in me. 



















###### 21 









"The LORD has dealt with me according to my righteousness; according to the cleanness of my hands he has rewarded me. 



















###### 22 









For I have kept the ways of the LORD; I am not guilty of turning from my God. 



















###### 23 









All his laws are before me; I have not turned away from his decrees. 



















###### 24 









I have been blameless before him and have kept myself from sin. 



















###### 25 









The LORD has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to my cleanness[^f] in his sight. 



















###### 26 









"To the faithful you show yourself faithful, to the blameless you show yourself blameless, 



















###### 27 









to the pure you show yourself pure, but to the devious you show yourself shrewd. 



















###### 28 









You save the humble, but your eyes are on the haughty to bring them low. 



















###### 29 









You, LORD, are my lamp; the LORD turns my darkness into light. 



















###### 30 









With your help I can advance against a troop[^g]; with my God I can scale a wall. 



















###### 31 









"As for God, his way is perfect: The LORD's word is flawless; he shields all who take refuge in him. 



















###### 32 









For who is God besides the LORD? And who is the Rock except our God? 



















###### 33 









It is God who arms me with strength[^h] and keeps my way secure. 



















###### 34 









He makes my feet like the feet of a deer; he causes me to stand on the heights. 



















###### 35 









He trains my hands for battle; my arms can bend a bow of bronze. 



















###### 36 









You make your saving help my shield; your help has made[^i] me great. 



















###### 37 









You provide a broad path for my feet, so that my ankles do not give way. 



















###### 38 









"I pursued my enemies and crushed them; I did not turn back till they were destroyed. 



















###### 39 









I crushed them completely, and they could not rise; they fell beneath my feet. 



















###### 40 









You armed me with strength for battle; you humbled my adversaries before me. 



















###### 41 









You made my enemies turn their backs in flight, and I destroyed my foes. 



















###### 42 









They cried for help, but there was no one to save them-- to the LORD, but he did not answer. 



















###### 43 









I beat them as fine as the dust of the earth; I pounded and trampled them like mud in the streets. 



















###### 44 









"You have delivered me from the attacks of the peoples; you have preserved me as the head of nations. People I did not know now serve me, 



















###### 45 









foreigners cower before me; as soon as they hear of me, they obey me. 



















###### 46 









They all lose heart; they come trembling[^j] from their strongholds. 



















###### 47 









"The LORD lives! Praise be to my Rock! Exalted be my God, the Rock, my Savior! 



















###### 48 









He is the God who avenges me, who puts the nations under me, 



















###### 49 









who sets me free from my enemies. You exalted me above my foes; from a violent man you rescued me. 



















###### 50 









Therefore I will praise you, LORD, among the nations; I will sing the praises of your name. 



















###### 51 









"He gives his king great victories; he shows unfailing kindness to his anointed, to David and his descendants forever." NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Samuel 22:3 Or _sovereign_ [^b]: 2 Samuel 22:3 _Horn_ here symbolizes strength. [^c]: 2 Samuel 22:8 Hebrew; Vulgate and Syriac (see also Psalm 18:7) _mountains_ [^d]: 2 Samuel 22:11 Many Hebrew manuscripts (see also Psalm 18:10); most Hebrew manuscripts _appeared_ [^e]: 2 Samuel 22:12 Septuagint (see also Psalm 18:11); Hebrew _massed_ [^f]: 2 Samuel 22:25 Hebrew; Septuagint and Vulgate (see also Psalm 18:24) _to the cleanness of my hands_ [^g]: 2 Samuel 22:30 Or _can run through a barricade_ [^h]: 2 Samuel 22:33 Dead Sea Scrolls, some Septuagint manuscripts, Vulgate and Syriac (see also Psalm 18:32); Masoretic Text _who is my strong refuge_ [^i]: 2 Samuel 22:36 Dead Sea Scrolls; Masoretic Text _shield; / you stoop down to make_ [^j]: 2 Samuel 22:46 Some Septuagint manuscripts and Vulgate (see also Psalm 18:45); Masoretic Text _they arm themselves_
