---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 10]
previous: ['2 Chr 9']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 11']
---
# 2 Chronicles 10

***
















###### 1 







Then Rehoboam went to Shechem, because all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king. 















###### 2 







When Jeroboam the son of Nebat heard _about the new king_ **(**for he was in [^a]Egypt, where he had fled from the presence of King Solomon**)**, Jeroboam returned from Egypt. 















###### 3 







And the people sent _messengers_ and summoned him. So when Jeroboam and all Israel came, they spoke to Rehoboam, saying, 















###### 4 







"Your father [King Solomon] made our yoke hard (heavy, difficult); so now lighten the hard service of your father and his heavy yoke which he put on us, and we will serve you." 















###### 5 







Rehoboam replied, "Come back to me again in three days." So the people departed. 















###### 6 







Then King Rehoboam consulted with the elders who had served his father Solomon [as advisers] while he was alive, asking, "What advice do you give me in answer to these people?" 















###### 7 







They answered him, saying, "If you are kind to these people and please them and speak good words to them, then they will be your servants forever." 















###### 8 







But the king rejected the advice which the elders gave him, and consulted with the young men who grew up with him and served him [as advisers]. 















###### 9 







He asked them, "What advice do you give to us regarding the answer to these people, who have spoken to me, saying, 'Lighten the yoke which your father put on us'?" 















###### 10 







The young men who grew up with him told him, "Tell the people who said to you, 'Your father made our yoke heavy, but you make it lighter for us': 'My little finger is thicker than my father's [^b]loins! 















###### 11 







Now my father loaded you with a heavy yoke, but I will add [more weight] to your yoke. My father disciplined you with whips, but I _will discipline you_ with scorpions (extremely painful scourges).'" 















###### 12 







So on the third day Jeroboam and all the people returned to Rehoboam just as the king had directed, saying, "Return to me on the third day." 















###### 13 







The king answered them harshly, for King Rehoboam rejected the counsel of the elders. 















###### 14 







He spoke to them in accordance with the advice of the young men, saying, "My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to it; my father disciplined you with whips, but I _will discipline you_ with scorpions." 















###### 15 







So the king did not listen to the people, for the [^c]turn of events was from God that the LORD might fulfill His word, which He had spoken through Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat. 















###### 16 







When all Israel saw that the king did not listen _and_ pay attention to them, the people answered him, "What portion do we have in David? _We have_ no inheritance in the son of Jesse. Every man to your tents, O Israel; Now, [Rehoboam, descendant of] David, see to your own house." So all Israel went to their tents. 















###### 17 







But as for the Israelites who lived in Judah's cities, Rehoboam ruled over them. 















###### 18 







Then King Rehoboam [^d]sent Hadoram, who was over the forced labor, and the Israelites stoned him and he died. And King Rehoboam hurried to mount his [royal] chariot to escape to Jerusalem. 















###### 19 







And Israel has rebelled against the house of David to this day. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 10:2 Jeroboam had been living in Egypt under the protection of the pharaoh, Shishak. [^b]: 2 Chronicles 10:10 The midsection of the body between the lower ribs and the hips. [^c]: 2 Chronicles 10:15 God brought about the revolt of the northern tribes, intending it as a punishment of the house of David for Solomon’s apostasy. [^d]: 2 Chronicles 10:18 This evidently was a last-resort effort by Rehoboam to assert control over the Israelites.
