---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 27]
previous: ['2 Chr 26']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 28']
---
# 2 Chronicles 27

***
















###### 1 







Jotham was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned for sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jerushah the daughter of Zadok. 















###### 2 







He did right in the sight of the LORD, in accordance with everything that his father Uzziah had done; however, he did not enter the temple of the LORD. But the people continued behaving corruptly. 















###### 3 







He built the upper gate of the house of the LORD, and did extensive building on the wall of Ophel. 















###### 4 







Moreover, he built cities in the hill country of Judah, and in the forests he built fortresses and towers. 















###### 5 







He also fought with the king of the Ammonites and prevailed over them. As a result the Ammonites gave him during that year a hundred talents of silver and ten thousand measures each of wheat and of barley. The Ammonites also paid him that much in the second year and third year. 















###### 6 







So Jotham grew powerful, because he directed his ways before the LORD his God. 















###### 7 







Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all his wars and his ways, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah. 















###### 8 







He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned for sixteen years in Jerusalem. 















###### 9 







And Jotham slept with his fathers [in death], and they buried him in the City of David. Ahaz his son became king in his place. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
