---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 31]
previous: ['2 Chr 30']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 32']
---
# 2 Chronicles 31

***
















###### 1 







Now when all of this was finished, all Israel who were present went out to the cities of Judah, and smashed the [pagan] pillars (obelisks, memorial stones) in pieces, cut down the Asherim (wooden symbols of a female deity), and tore down the high places and the altars [of idolatry] throughout all Judah and Benjamin, as well as in Ephraim and Manasseh, until they had destroyed them all. Then all the sons (descendants) of Israel returned to their own cities, each to his own property. 















###### 2 







And Hezekiah appointed the divisions of the priests, and the Levites by their divisions, each in accordance with his service, both the priests and Levites, for burnt offerings and for peace offerings, to minister and to give thanks and to praise in the gates of the camp of the LORD. ## Reforms Continued 















###### 3 







Hezekiah also _appointed_ the king's [personal] portion of his goods: for the morning and evening burnt offerings, and the burnt offerings for the Sabbaths and for the New Moons and for the appointed feasts, as it is written in the Law of the LORD. 















###### 4 







He also told (ordered) the people living in Jerusalem to give the portion that was due to the priests and Levites, so that they might [be free to] devote themselves to the Law of the LORD. 















###### 5 







As soon as the _king's_ order spread, the Israelites gave in abundance the first fruits of grain, new wine, [olive] oil, honey, and of all the produce of the field; and they brought in the tithe of everything abundantly. 















###### 6 







The sons of Israel and Judah who lived in the cities of Judah also brought in the tithe of oxen and sheep, and the tithe of sacred gifts which were consecrated to the LORD their God, and placed them in heaps. 















###### 7 







In the third month [at the end of wheat harvest] they began to make the heaps, and they finished them in the seventh month. 















###### 8 







When Hezekiah and the rulers came and saw the heaps, they blessed the LORD and His people Israel. 















###### 9 







Then Hezekiah questioned the priests and Levites about the heaps. 















###### 10 







Azariah the high priest of the house of Zadok answered him, "Since the people began to bring the offerings into the house of the LORD, we have had enough to eat with plenty left over, for the LORD has blessed His people, and this great quantity is left over." 















###### 11 







Then Hezekiah told them to prepare rooms [for storage] in the house of the LORD, and they prepared them. 















###### 12 







They faithfully brought in the contributions, the tithes, and the sacred (dedicated) things. Conaniah the Levite was in charge of them, and Shimei his brother was second [in authority]. 















###### 13 







Jehiel, Azaziah, Nahath, Asahel, Jerimoth, Jozabad, Eliel, Ismachiah, Mahath, and Benaiah were overseers directed by Conaniah and Shimei his brother by the appointment of King Hezekiah, and Azariah was the _chief_ officer of the house of God. 















###### 14 







Kore the son of Imnah the Levite, keeper of the East Gate, was in charge of the voluntary offerings to God, to apportion the contributions for the LORD and the most holy things. 















###### 15 







Under his authority were Eden, Miniamin, Jeshua, Shemaiah, Amariah, and Shecaniah in the cities of the priests, to distribute faithfully _their portions_ to their brothers (relatives) by divisions, whether great or small, 















###### 16 







without regard to their genealogical registration, to the males from thirty years old and upward--everyone who entered the house of the LORD for his daily obligations--for their service in accordance with their duties by their divisions; 















###### 17 







as well as the priests who were registered genealogically according to their fathers' households, and the Levites from twenty years old and upward, by their duties and by their divisions. 















###### 18 







The genealogical registration _included_ all their little children, their wives, and their sons and daughters, for the whole assembly, because they consecrated themselves faithfully in holiness. 















###### 19 







Also for the sons of Aaron, the priests, who were in the pasture lands of their cities or in each and every city, there were men who were designated by name to give portions to every male among the priests and to everyone genealogically registered among the Levites. 















###### 20 







This is what Hezekiah did throughout Judah; and he did what was good, right, and true before the LORD his God. 















###### 21 







Every work which he began in the service of the house of God in keeping with the law and the commandment, seeking _and_ inquiring of his God [and longing for Him], he did with all his heart and prospered. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
