---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 14]
previous: ['2 Chr 13']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 15']
---
# 2 Chronicles 14

***
















###### 1 







[^a]So Abijah slept with his fathers [in death], and they buried him in the City of David; and Asa his son became king in his place. The land was at peace for ten years during his days. 















###### 2 







[^b]Asa did what was good and right in the sight of the LORD his God. 















###### 3 







He removed the foreign altars and high places and tore down the [pagan] pillars (obelisks, memorial stones), and cut to pieces the Asherim [the symbols of the goddess Asherah]. 















###### 4 







And he commanded Judah to seek the LORD God of their fathers [to inquire of and for Him and seek Him as a vital necessity], and to observe the law [given to Moses] and the commandment. 















###### 5 







Asa also removed the [idolatrous] high places and the incense altars from all the cities of Judah. The kingdom was at rest _and_ undisturbed under his reign. 















###### 6 







He built fortified cities in Judah, since the land was at rest, and there was no one at war with him in those years, because the LORD had given him rest. 















###### 7 







So he said to Judah, "Let us build these cities and surround them with walls, towers, gates and bars [to secure the doors]. The land is still ours because we have sought the LORD our God; we have sought Him [longing for Him with all our heart] and He has given us peace on every side." So they built and prospered. 















###### 8 







Now Asa had an army of 300,000 men from Judah, who carried large shields and spears, and 280,000 from Benjamin, who carried shields and drew bows, all courageous men. 















###### 9 







Now Zerah the Ethiopian (Cushite) came out against Judah with an army of a million men and three hundred chariots, and he came as far as Mareshah. 















###### 10 







Then Asa went out against him, and they drew up in battle formation in the Valley of Zephathah at Mareshah. 















###### 11 







Asa called out to the LORD his God, saying, "O LORD, there is no one besides You to help _in the battle_ between the powerful and the weak; so help us, O LORD our God, for we trust in _and_ rely on You, and in Your name we have come against this multitude. O LORD, You are our God; let not man prevail against You." 















###### 12 







So the LORD struck the Ethiopians [with defeat] before Asa and Judah, and the Ethiopians fled. 















###### 13 







Asa and the people who were with him pursued them as far as [^c]Gerar; and so many Ethiopians fell that none of them _were found_ alive; for they were destroyed before the LORD and His army. And they carried away a very large amount of spoil. 















###### 14 







They attacked _and_ destroyed all the cities around Gerar, for the dread of the LORD had fallen on them. They plundered all the cities, for there was a large amount of spoil in them. 















###### 15 







They also struck down the people [living] in tents who had livestock, and took captive large numbers of sheep and camels. Then they returned to Jerusalem. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 14:1 Ch 13:23 in Hebrew. [^b]: 2 Chronicles 14:2 Ch 14:1 in Hebrew. [^c]: 2 Chronicles 14:13 An ancient Philistine town, today probably the modern Wadi-el Jerdr located in south-central Israel. Abraham and Isaac each stayed at Gerar (Gen 20:1; 26:1).
