---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 21]
previous: ['2 Chr 20']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 22']
---
# 2 Chronicles 21

***
















###### 1 







Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers [in death] and was buried with them in the City of David; and his son Jehoram became king in his place. 















###### 2 







He had brothers, the sons of Jehoshaphat: Azariah, Jehiel, Zechariah, [^a]Azaryahu, Michael, and Shephatiah. All of these were the sons of Jehoshaphat king of Israel. 















###### 3 







Their father gave them many gifts of silver, gold, and valuable things, in addition to fortified cities in Judah; but he gave the kingdom to Jehoram because he was the firstborn. 















###### 4 







When Jehoram had ascended over the kingdom of his father and made himself secure, he killed all his brothers with the sword [to eliminate any rivals], and some of the leaders of Israel as well. 















###### 5 







Jehoram was thirty-two years of age when he became king, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem. 















###### 6 







He walked in the way of the kings of Israel, just as the house of Ahab had done **(**for he married the daughter of Ahab**)**, and he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD. 















###### 7 







Yet the LORD would not destroy the house of David because of the covenant which He had made with David, and because He had promised to give a [^b]lamp to him and to his sons forever. ## Revolt against Judah 















###### 8 







In the days of Jehoram Edom revolted against the rule of Judah and set up a king over themselves. 















###### 9 







Then Jehoram crossed over [the Jordan River] with his commanders and all his chariots, and rose up by night and struck down the Edomites who were surrounding him and the commanders of the chariots. 















###### 10 







So Edom revolted against the rule of Judah to this day. Then Libnah revolted at the same time against Jehoram's rule, because he had abandoned (turned away from) the LORD God of his fathers. 















###### 11 







Moreover, he made [idolatrous] high places in the hill country of Judah, and caused the inhabitants of Jerusalem to be unfaithful [to God], and he led Judah astray [compelling the people's cooperation]. 















###### 12 







Then a letter came to Jehoram from Elijah the prophet, saying, "Thus says the LORD God of David your father (ancestor): 'Because you have not walked in the ways of your father Jehoshaphat nor in the ways of Asa king of Judah, 















###### 13 







but have walked in the way of the kings of Israel, and caused Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to be unfaithful [to God] as the house of Ahab was unfaithful, and you have also murdered your brothers, your father's house (your own family), who were better than you, 















###### 14 







behold, the LORD is going to strike your people, your sons, your wives, and all your possessions with a great disaster; 















###### 15 







and you will suffer a severe illness, an intestinal disease, until your intestines come out because of the sickness, day after day.'" 















###### 16 







Then the LORD stirred up against Jehoram the spirit (anger) of the Philistines and of the Arabs who bordered the Ethiopians. 















###### 17 







They came against Judah and invaded it, and carried away all the possessions found in the king's house (palace), together with his sons and his wives; so there was not a son left to him except Jehoahaz, the youngest of his sons. 















###### 18 







After all this, the LORD struck Jehoram with an incurable intestinal disease. 















###### 19 







Now it came about in the course of time, at the end of two years, that his intestines came out because of his disease and he died in excruciating pain. And his people did not make a funeral fire _to honor_ him, like the fire for his fathers. 















###### 20 







Jehoram was thirty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem eight years; and he departed with no one's regret (sorrow). They buried him in the City of David, but not in the tombs of the kings. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 21:2 Or _Azariah_. [^b]: 2 Chronicles 21:7 I.e. a descendant on the throne.
