---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 16]
previous: ['2 Chr 15']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 17']
---
# 2 Chronicles 16

***
















###### 1 







In the [^a]thirty-sixth year of Asa's reign Baasha king of Israel came up against Judah and fortified Ramah in order to prevent _anyone_ from going out or coming in to [meet with] Asa king of Judah. 















###### 2 







Then Asa brought out silver and gold from the treasuries of the house of the LORD and from the king's house, and sent them to Ben-hadad king of Aram (Syria), who lived in Damascus, saying, 















###### 3 







"_Let there be_ a treaty between you and me, as there was between my father and your father. Look, I am sending you silver and gold; go, break your treaty with Baasha king of Israel, so that he will withdraw from me." 















###### 4 







Ben-hadad listened to King Asa and sent the commanders of his armies against the cities of Israel; and they attacked _and_ conquered Ijon, Dan, Abel-maim, and all the storage cities of Naphtali. 















###### 5 







When Baasha heard about it, he ceased fortifying Ramah and stopped his work. 















###### 6 







Then King Asa brought all Judah, and they carried away the stones of Ramah and its timber with which Baasha had been building, and with them he fortified Geba and Mizpah. ## Asa Imprisons the Prophet 















###### 7 







At that time Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Judah and said to him, "Because you relied on the king of Aram (Syria) and did not rely on the LORD your God, the army of the king of Aram (Syria) has escaped out of your hand. 















###### 8 







Were not the Ethiopians and Lubim a huge army with a great number of chariots and horsemen? Yet because you relied on the LORD, He placed them in your hand. 















###### 9 







For the eyes of the LORD move to and fro throughout the earth so that He may support those whose heart is completely His. You have acted foolishly in this; therefore, from now on you will have wars." 















###### 10 







Then Asa was angry with the seer and put him in prison [in the stocks], for he was enraged with him because of this. And at the same time Asa oppressed some of the people. 















###### 11 







Now the acts of Asa, from the first to the last, are written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel. 















###### 12 







In the [^b]thirty-ninth year of his reign Asa developed a disease in his feet. His disease was severe, yet even in his illness he did not seek the LORD, but [relied only on] the physicians. 















###### 13 







So Asa slept with his fathers [in death], dying in the forty-first year of his reign. 















###### 14 







They buried him in his own tomb which he had cut out for himself in the City of David, and they laid him on a bier which he had filled with various kinds of spices blended by the perfumers' art; and they made a very great fire in his honor. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 16:1 It is possible that this refers to the number of years since the kingdom was divided, not the actual year of Asa’s reign. [^b]: 2 Chronicles 16:12 See note v 1.
