---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 17]
previous: ['2 Chr 16']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 18']
---
# 2 Chronicles 17

***
















###### 1 







Jehoshaphat his son then became king [of Judah] in Asa's place, and strengthened his position over Israel. 















###### 2 







He placed troops in all the fortified cities of Judah, and set garrisons in the land of Judah and in the cities of Ephraim which his father Asa had captured. ## His Good Reign 















###### 3 







The LORD was with Jehoshaphat because he [^a]followed the example of his father (ancestor) David. He did not seek [to follow] the Baals [the false gods], 















###### 4 







but sought the God of his father, and walked in (obeyed) His commandments, and did not act as Israel did. 















###### 5 







Therefore the LORD established the kingdom in his hand; and all Judah brought tribute to Jehoshaphat, and he had great wealth and honor. 















###### 6 







His heart was encouraged _and_ he took great pride in the ways of the LORD; moreover, he again removed the high places [of pagan worship] and the Asherim from Judah. 















###### 7 







Then in the third year of his reign he sent his officials, Ben-hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel, and Micaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah; 















###### 8 







and with them were the Levites--Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah, and Tobadonijah; and with them the priests Elishama and Jehoram. 















###### 9 







They taught in Judah _having_ the Book of the Law of the LORD with them; they went throughout all the cities of Judah and taught among the people. 















###### 10 







Now the dread of the LORD was on all the kingdoms of the lands surrounding Judah, so that they did not make war against Jehoshaphat. 















###### 11 







Some of the Philistines brought gifts and silver as tribute to Jehoshaphat; the Arabians also brought him flocks: 7,700 rams and 7,700 male goats. 















###### 12 







So Jehoshaphat became greater and greater. He built fortresses and storage cities in Judah. 















###### 13 







He had large supplies in the cities of Judah, and soldiers, courageous men, in Jerusalem. 















###### 14 







This was the number of them by their fathers' (ancestors') households: of Judah, the commanders of thousands, Adnah the commander, and with him 300,000 courageous men; 















###### 15 







and next to him was Jehohanan the commander, and with him 280,000; 















###### 16 







and next to him Amasiah the son of Zichri, who volunteered for the LORD, and with him 200,000 courageous men; 















###### 17 







and of Benjamin: Eliada, a brave man, and with him 200,000 men armed with bow and shield; 















###### 18 







and next to him was Jehozabad, and with him 180,000 armed _and_ ready for military service. 















###### 19 







These are the ones who were in the service of the king, besides those he had placed in fortified cities throughout Judah. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 17:3 Lit _walked in the earlier ways of his father_.
