---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 10]
previous: ['1 Cor 9']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 11']
---
# 1 Corinthians 10

***








###### 1 



For I do not want you to be unaware, brothers _and sisters_, that our fathers were all under the cloud and they all passed through the sea; 







###### 2 



and they all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea; 







###### 3 



and they all ate the same spiritual food, 







###### 4 



and all drank the same spiritual drink, for they were drinking from a spiritual rock which followed them; and the rock was [^a]Christ. 







###### 5 



Nevertheless, with most of them God was not pleased; for _their dead bodies_ were spread out in the wilderness. 







###### 6 



Now these things happened as examples for us, so that we would not crave evil things as they indeed craved _them_. 







###### 7 



Do not be idolaters, as some of them were; as it is written: "The people sat down to eat and to drink, and rose up to play." 







###### 8 



Nor are we to commit sexual immorality, as some of them [^b]did, and twenty-three thousand fell in one day. 







###### 9 



Nor are we to put the Lord to the test, as some of them [^c]did, and were killed by the snakes. 







###### 10 



Nor grumble, as some of them [^d]did, and were killed by the destroyer. 







###### 11 



Now these things happened to them as an example, and they were written for our instruction, upon whom the ends of the ages have come. 







###### 12 



Therefore let the one who thinks he stands watch out that he does not fall. 







###### 13 



No temptation has overtaken you except _something_ common to mankind; and God is faithful, [^e]so He will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able, but with the temptation will provide the way of escape also, so that you will be able to endure it. 







###### 14 



Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. 







###### 15 



I speak as to wise people; you _then_, judge what I say. 







###### 16 



Is the cup of blessing which we bless not a sharing in the blood of Christ? Is the bread which we break not a sharing in the body of Christ? 







###### 17 



Since there is one loaf, we who are many are one body; for we all partake of the one loaf. 







###### 18 



Look at [^f]the people of Israel; are those who eat the sacrifices not partners in the altar? 







###### 19 



What do I mean then? That food sacrificed to idols is anything, or that an idol is [^g]anything? 







###### 20 



_No_, but _I say_ that things which _the Gentiles_ sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons and not to God; and I do not want you to become partners with demons. 







###### 21 



You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons; you cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons. 







###### 22 



Or do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? We are not stronger than He, are we? 







###### 23 



All things are permitted, but not all things are of benefit. All things are permitted, but not all things [^h]build _people_ up. 







###### 24 



No one is to seek his own _advantage_, but rather that of his [^i]neighbor. 







###### 25 



Eat anything that is sold in the meat market without asking questions, for the sake of conscience; 







###### 26 



for the earth is the Lord's, and [^j]all it contains. 







###### 27 



If one of the unbelievers invites you and you want to go, eat anything that is set before you without asking questions, for the sake of conscience. 







###### 28 



But if anyone says to you, "This is meat sacrificed to idols," do not eat _it_, for the sake of that one who informed _you_ and for the sake of conscience; 







###### 29 



Now _by_ "conscience" I do not mean your own, but the other person's; for why is my freedom judged by another's conscience? 







###### 30 



If I partake with thankfulness, why am I slandered about that for which I give thanks? 







###### 31 



Therefore, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all things for the glory of God. 







###### 32 



Do not offend Jews or Greeks, or the church of God; 







###### 33 



just as I also please everyone in all things, not seeking my own benefit but the _benefit_ of the many, so that they may be saved. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Corinthians 10:4 I.e., the Messiah [^b]: 1 Corinthians 10:8 Lit _committed sexual immorality_ [^c]: 1 Corinthians 10:9 Lit _made trial_ [^d]: 1 Corinthians 10:10 Lit _grumbled_ [^e]: 1 Corinthians 10:13 Lit _who will not_ [^f]: 1 Corinthians 10:18 Lit _Israel according to the flesh_ [^g]: 1 Corinthians 10:19 I.e., anything real [^h]: 1 Corinthians 10:23 Or _edify_ [^i]: 1 Corinthians 10:24 Lit _the other_ [^j]: 1 Corinthians 10:26 Lit _its fullness_
