---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 11]
previous: ['1 Cor 10']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 12']
---
# 1 Corinthians 11

***








###### 1 



Be imitators of me, just as I also am of Christ. 







###### 2 



Now I praise you because you remember me in everything and hold firmly to the traditions, just as I handed them down to you. 







###### 3 



But I want you to understand that Christ is the head of every man, and [^a]the man is the head of a woman, and God is the head of Christ. 







###### 4 



Every man who has _something_ on his head while praying or prophesying disgraces his head. 







###### 5 



But every woman who has her head uncovered while praying or prophesying disgraces her head, for it is one and the same as the woman [^b]whose head is shaved. 







###### 6 



For if a woman does not cover [^c]her head, have her also [^d]cut her hair off; however, if it is disgraceful for a woman to [^e]have her hair cut off or [^f]her head shaved, have her cover [^g]her head. 







###### 7 



For a man should not have his head covered, since he is the image and glory of God; but the woman is the glory of man. 







###### 8 



For man [^h]does not originate from woman, but woman from man; 







###### 9 



for indeed man was not created for the woman's sake, but woman for the man's sake. 







###### 10 



Therefore the woman should have _a symbol of_ authority on her head, because of the angels. 







###### 11 



However, in the Lord, neither is woman [^i]independent of man, nor is man [^j]independent of woman. 







###### 12 



For as the woman _originated_ from the man, so also the man _has his birth_ through the woman; and all things _originate_ from God. 







###### 13 



Judge [^k]for yourselves: is it proper for a woman to pray to God _with her head_ uncovered? 







###### 14 



Does even nature itself not teach you that if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him, 







###### 15 



but if a woman has long hair, it is a glory to her? For her hair is given to her as a covering. 







###### 16 



But if anyone is inclined to be contentious, we have no [^l]such practice, nor have the churches of God. 







###### 17 



Now in giving this _next_ instruction I do not praise you, because you come together not for the better, but for the worse. 







###### 18 



For, in the first place, when you come together [^m]as a church, I hear that [^n]divisions exist among you; and in part I believe it. 







###### 19 



For there also have to be factions among you, so that those who are approved may become [^o]evident among you. 







###### 20 



Therefore when you come together it is not to eat the Lord's Supper, 







###### 21 



for when you eat, each one takes his own supper first; and one goes hungry while another gets drunk. 







###### 22 



What! Do you not have houses in which to eat and drink? Or do you despise the church of God and shame those who have nothing? What am I to say to you? Shall I praise you? In this I do not praise you. ## The Lord's Supper 







###### 23 



For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus, on the night when He was betrayed, took bread; 







###### 24 



and when He had given thanks, He broke it and said, "This is My body, which is for you; do this in remembrance of Me." 







###### 25 



In the same way _He_ also _took_ the cup after supper, saying, "This cup is the new covenant in My blood; do this, as often as you drink _it_, in remembrance of Me." 







###### 26 



For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until He comes. 







###### 27 



Therefore whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy way, shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. 







###### 28 



But a person must examine himself, and in so doing he is to eat of the bread and drink of the cup. 







###### 29 



For the one who eats and drinks, eats and drinks judgment to himself if he does not _properly_ recognize the [^p]body. 







###### 30 



For this reason many among you are weak and sick, and a number [^q]are asleep. 







###### 31 



But if we judged ourselves rightly, we would not be judged. 







###### 32 



But when we are judged, we are disciplined by the Lord so that we will not be condemned along with the world. 







###### 33 



So then, my brothers _and sisters_, when you come together to eat, wait for one another. 







###### 34 



If anyone is hungry, have him eat at home, so that you do not come together for judgment. As to the remaining matters, I will give instructions when I come. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Corinthians 11:3 Or _the head of a woman is her husband_ [^b]: 1 Corinthians 11:5 Lit _who is shaved_ [^c]: 1 Corinthians 11:6 Lit _herself_ [^d]: 1 Corinthians 11:6 Lit _shear herself_ [^e]: 1 Corinthians 11:6 Lit _shear herself_ [^f]: 1 Corinthians 11:6 Lit _herself_ [^g]: 1 Corinthians 11:6 Lit _herself_ [^h]: 1 Corinthians 11:8 Lit _is not from_ [^i]: 1 Corinthians 11:11 Lit _without_ [^j]: 1 Corinthians 11:11 Lit _without_ [^k]: 1 Corinthians 11:13 Lit _among_ [^l]: 1 Corinthians 11:16 I.e., the one advocated by Paul’s opponents [^m]: 1 Corinthians 11:18 Lit _in church_ [^n]: 1 Corinthians 11:18 Or _dissensions_ [^o]: 1 Corinthians 11:19 Or _recognizable_ [^p]: 1 Corinthians 11:29 I.e., body of the Lord [^q]: 1 Corinthians 11:30 I.e., are dead
