---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 15]
previous: ['1 Cor 14']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 16']
---
# 1 Corinthians 15

***








###### 1 



Now I make known to you, brothers _and sisters_, the gospel which I preached to you, which you also received, in which you also stand, 







###### 2 



by which you also are saved, if you hold firmly to [^a]the word which I preached to you, unless you believed in vain. 







###### 3 



For I handed down to you [^b]as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, 







###### 4 



and that He was buried, and that He was raised on the third day according to the Scriptures, 







###### 5 



and that He appeared to [^c]Cephas, then to the twelve. 







###### 6 



After that He appeared to more than five hundred brothers _and sisters_ at one time, most of whom remain until now, but some have fallen asleep; 







###### 7 



then He appeared to [^d]James, then to all the apostles; 







###### 8 



and last of all, as [^e]to one untimely born, He appeared to me also. 







###### 9 



For I am the least of the apostles, [^f]and not fit to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. 







###### 10 



But by the grace of God I am what I am, and His grace toward me did not prove vain; but I labored even more than all of them, yet not I, but the grace of God with me. 







###### 11 



Whether then _it was_ I or they, so we preach and so you believed. 







###### 12 



Now if Christ is preached, that He has been raised from the dead, how do some among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead? 







###### 13 



But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised; 







###### 14 



and if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain, your faith also is in vain. 







###### 15 



Moreover, we are even found _to be_ false witnesses of God, because we testified [^g]against God that He raised [^h]Christ, whom He did not raise, if in fact the dead are not raised. 







###### 16 



For if the dead are not raised, then not even Christ has been raised; 







###### 17 



and if Christ has not been raised, your faith is worthless; you are still in your sins. 







###### 18 



Then also those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. 







###### 19 



If we have hoped in Christ only in this life, we are of all people most to be pitied. ## The Order of Resurrection 







###### 20 



But the fact is, Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who are asleep. 







###### 21 



For since by a man death _came_, by a man also _came_ the resurrection of the dead. 







###### 22 



For as in Adam all die, so also in [^i]Christ all will be made alive. 







###### 23 



But each in his own order: Christ the first fruits, after that those who are Christ's at His coming, 







###### 24 



then _comes_ the end, when He hands over the kingdom to _our_ God and Father, when He has abolished all rule and all authority and power. 







###### 25 



For He must reign until He has put all His enemies under His feet. 







###### 26 



The last enemy that will be abolished is death. 







###### 27 



For He has put all things in subjection under His feet. But when He says, "All things are put in subjection," it is clear that [^j]this excludes the _Father_ who put all things in subjection to Him. 







###### 28 



When all things are subjected to Him, then the Son Himself will also be subjected to the One who subjected all things to Him, so that God may be all in all. 







###### 29 



For otherwise, what will those do who are baptized [^k]for the dead? If the dead are not raised at all, why then are they baptized [^l]for them? 







###### 30 



Why are we also in danger every hour? 







###### 31 



I affirm, brothers _and sisters_, by the boasting in you which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord, that I die daily. 







###### 32 



If [^m]from human motives I fought with wild beasts at Ephesus, what good is it to me? If the dead are not raised, let's eat and drink, for tomorrow we die. 







###### 33 



Do not be deceived: "Bad company corrupts good morals." 







###### 34 



Sober up [^n]morally and stop sinning, for some have no knowledge of God. I say _this_ to your shame. 







###### 35 



But someone will say, "How are the dead raised? And with what kind of body do they come?" 







###### 36 



You fool! That which you sow does not come to life unless it dies; 







###### 37 



and that which you sow, you do not sow the body which is to be, but a bare grain, perhaps of wheat or of [^o]something else. 







###### 38 



But God gives it a body just as He wished, and to each of the seeds a body of its own. 







###### 39 



All flesh is not the same flesh, but there is one _flesh_ of mankind, another flesh of animals, another flesh of birds, and another of fish. 







###### 40 



There are also heavenly bodies and earthly bodies, but the glory of the heavenly is one, and the _glory_ of the earthly is another. 







###### 41 



There is one glory of the sun, another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for star differs from star in glory. 







###### 42 



So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown [^p]a perishable _body_, it is raised [^q]an imperishable _body_; 







###### 43 



it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power; 







###### 44 



it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual _body_. 







###### 45 



So also it is written: "The first man, Adam, became a living [^r]person." The last Adam _was_ a life-giving spirit. 







###### 46 



However, the spiritual is not first, but the natural; then the spiritual. 







###### 47 



The first man is from the earth, [^s]earthy; the second man is from heaven. 







###### 48 



As is the earthy one, so also are those who are earthy; and as is the heavenly one, so also are those who are heavenly. 







###### 49 



Just as we have borne the image of the earthy, [^t]we will also bear the image of the heavenly. ## The Mystery of Resurrection 







###### 50 



Now I say this, brothers _and sisters_, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God; nor does [^u]the perishable inherit [^v]the imperishable. 







###### 51 



Behold, I am telling you a [^w]mystery; we will not all sleep, but we will all be changed, 







###### 52 



in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet; for the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised [^x]imperishable, and we will be changed. 







###### 53 



For this [^y]perishable must put on [^z]the imperishable, and this mortal _must_ put on immortality. 







###### 54 



But when this [^aa]perishable puts on [^ab]the imperishable, and this mortal puts on immortality, then will come about the saying that is written: "Death has been swallowed up in victory. 







###### 55 



Where, O Death, is your victory? Where, O Death, is your sting?" 







###### 56 



The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the Law; 







###### 57 



but thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. 







###### 58 



Therefore, my beloved brothers _and sisters_, be firm, immovable, always excelling in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not _in_ vain in the Lord. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Corinthians 15:2 Lit _to what word I_ [^b]: 1 Corinthians 15:3 Lit _among the first_ [^c]: 1 Corinthians 15:5 Peter’s Aramaic name [^d]: 1 Corinthians 15:7 Or _Jacob_ [^e]: 1 Corinthians 15:8 Lit _to an untimely birth_ [^f]: 1 Corinthians 15:9 Lit _who am_ [^g]: 1 Corinthians 15:15 Or _concerning_ [^h]: 1 Corinthians 15:15 I.e., the Messiah [^i]: 1 Corinthians 15:22 I.e., the Messiah [^j]: 1 Corinthians 15:27 Lit _except the_ [^k]: 1 Corinthians 15:29 Or _in behalf of_ [^l]: 1 Corinthians 15:29 Or _in behalf of_ [^m]: 1 Corinthians 15:32 Lit _according to man_ [^n]: 1 Corinthians 15:34 Lit _righteously_ [^o]: 1 Corinthians 15:37 Lit _some of the rest_ [^p]: 1 Corinthians 15:42 Lit _in corruption_ [^q]: 1 Corinthians 15:42 Lit _in incorruption_ [^r]: 1 Corinthians 15:45 Or _soul_ [^s]: 1 Corinthians 15:47 Or _made of dust_, and so throughout the ch [^t]: 1 Corinthians 15:49 Two early mss _let’s also_ [^u]: 1 Corinthians 15:50 Lit _corruption_ [^v]: 1 Corinthians 15:50 Lit _incorruption_ [^w]: 1 Corinthians 15:51 Or _secret_ [^x]: 1 Corinthians 15:52 Lit _incorruptible_ [^y]: 1 Corinthians 15:53 Lit _corruptible_ [^z]: 1 Corinthians 15:53 Lit _incorruption_ [^aa]: 1 Corinthians 15:54 Lit _corruptible_ [^ab]: 1 Corinthians 15:54 Lit _incorruption_
