---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 14]
previous: ['1 Cor 13']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 15']
---
# 1 Corinthians 14

***








###### 1 



Pursue love, yet earnestly desire spiritual _gifts_, but especially that you may prophesy. 







###### 2 



For the one who speaks in a tongue does not speak to people, but to God; for no one [^a]understands, but [^b]in _his_ spirit he speaks mysteries. 







###### 3 



But the one who prophesies speaks to people _for_ edification, [^c]exhortation, and consolation. 







###### 4 



The one who speaks in a tongue edifies himself; but the one who prophesies edifies the church. 







###### 5 



Now I wish that you all spoke in tongues, but rather that you would prophesy; and greater is the one who prophesies than the one who speaks in tongues, unless he interprets, so that the church may receive edification. 







###### 6 



But now, brothers _and sisters_, if I come to you speaking in tongues, how will I benefit you unless I speak to you either by way of revelation, or of knowledge, or of prophecy, or of teaching? 







###### 7 



Yet _even_ lifeless _instruments_, whether flute or harp, in producing a sound, if they do not produce a distinction in the tones, how will it be known what is played on the flute or on the harp? 







###### 8 



For if the trumpet produces an indistinct sound, who will prepare himself for battle? 







###### 9 



So you too, unless you produce intelligible speech by the tongue, how will it be known what is spoken? For you will _just_ be talking to the air. 







###### 10 



There are, perhaps, a great many kinds of [^d]languages in the world, and none is incapable of meaning. 







###### 11 



So if I do not know the meaning of the language, I will be unintelligible to the one who speaks, and the one who speaks will be unintelligible [^e]to me. 







###### 12 



So you too, since you are eager to possess [^f]spiritual _gifts_, strive to excel for the edification of the church. 







###### 13 



Therefore, one who speaks in a tongue is to pray that he may interpret. 







###### 14 



For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my mind is unproductive. 







###### 15 



What is _the outcome_ then? I will pray with the spirit, but I will pray with the mind also; I will sing with the spirit, but I will sing with the mind also. 







###### 16 



For otherwise, if you bless _God_ [^g]in the spirit _only_, how will the one who occupies the place of the [^h]outsider _know to_ say the "Amen" at your giving of thanks, since he does not understand what you are saying? 







###### 17 



For you are giving thanks well _enough_, but the other person is not edified. 







###### 18 



I thank God, I speak in tongues more than you all; 







###### 19 



nevertheless, in church I prefer to speak five words with my mind so that I may instruct others also, rather than ten thousand words in a tongue. ## Instruction for the Church 







###### 20 



Brothers _and sisters_, do not be children in your thinking; yet in evil be infants, but in your thinking be mature. 







###### 21 



In the [^i]Law it is written: "By men of strange tongues and by the lips of strangers I will speak to this people, and even so they will not listen to Me," says the Lord. 







###### 22 



So then, tongues are for a sign, not to those who believe but to unbelievers; but prophecy is not for unbelievers, but for those who believe. 







###### 23 



Therefore if the whole church gathers together and all _the people_ speak in tongues, and [^j]outsiders or unbelievers enter, will they not say that you are insane? 







###### 24 



But if all prophesy, and an unbeliever or an [^k]outsider enters, he is convicted by all, he is called to account by all; 







###### 25 



the secrets of his heart are disclosed; and so he will fall on his face and worship God, declaring that God is certainly among you. 







###### 26 



What is _the outcome_ then, brothers _and sisters_? When you assemble, each one has a psalm, has a teaching, has a revelation, has a tongue, has an interpretation. All things are to be done for edification. 







###### 27 



If anyone speaks in a tongue, _it must be_ by two or at the most three, and _each one_ in turn, and one is to interpret; 







###### 28 



but if there is no interpreter, he is to keep silent in church; and have him speak to himself and to God. 







###### 29 



Have two or three prophets speak, and have the others pass judgment. 







###### 30 



But if a revelation is made to another who is seated, then the first one is to keep silent. 







###### 31 



For you can all prophesy one by one, so that all may learn and all may be [^l]exhorted; 







###### 32 



and the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets; 







###### 33 



for God is not _a God_ of confusion, but of peace. As in all the churches of the [^m]saints, 







###### 34 



the women are to keep silent in the churches; for they are not permitted to speak, but are to subject themselves, just as the Law also says. 







###### 35 



If they desire to learn anything, let them ask their own husbands at home; for it is [^n]improper for a woman to speak in church. 







###### 36 



Or was it from you that the word of God _first_ went out? Or has it come to you only? 







###### 37 



If anyone thinks that he is a prophet or spiritual, let him recognize that the things which I write to you are the Lord's commandment. 







###### 38 



But if anyone does not recognize _this_, [^o]he is not recognized. 







###### 39 



Therefore, my brothers _and sisters_, earnestly desire to prophesy, and do not forbid speaking in tongues. 







###### 40 



But all things must be done properly and in an orderly way. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Corinthians 14:2 Lit _hears_ [^b]: 1 Corinthians 14:2 Or _by the Spirit_ [^c]: 1 Corinthians 14:3 Or _encouragement_ [^d]: 1 Corinthians 14:10 Lit _voices_ [^e]: 1 Corinthians 14:11 Or _in my estimation_ [^f]: 1 Corinthians 14:12 Lit _spirits_ [^g]: 1 Corinthians 14:16 Or _with the_ [^h]: 1 Corinthians 14:16 Lit _private person_ [^i]: 1 Corinthians 14:21 I.e., Old Testament, Isaiah [^j]: 1 Corinthians 14:23 See note 2 v 16 [^k]: 1 Corinthians 14:24 See note 2 v 16 [^l]: 1 Corinthians 14:31 Or _encouraged_ [^m]: 1 Corinthians 14:33 I.e., God’s people [^n]: 1 Corinthians 14:35 Or _disgraceful_ [^o]: 1 Corinthians 14:38 Two early mss _let him continue not to recognize_ it
