---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 12]
previous: ['1 Cor 11']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 13']
---
# 1 Corinthians 12

***








###### 1 



Now concerning spiritual _gifts_, brothers _and sisters_, I do not want you to be unaware. 







###### 2 



You know that when you were [^a]pagans, _you were_ led [^b]astray to the mute idols, however you were led. 







###### 3 



Therefore I make known to you that no one speaking [^c]by the Spirit of God says, "Jesus is [^d]accursed"; and no one can say, "Jesus is Lord," except [^e]by the Holy Spirit. 







###### 4 



Now there are varieties of gifts, but the same Spirit. 







###### 5 



And there are varieties of ministries, and the same Lord. 







###### 6 



There are varieties of effects, but the same God who works all things in all _persons_. 







###### 7 



But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. 







###### 8 



For to one is given the word of wisdom through the Spirit, and to another the word of knowledge according to the same Spirit; 







###### 9 



to another faith [^f]by the same Spirit, and to another gifts of [^g]healing [^h]by the one Spirit, 







###### 10 



and to another the [^i]effecting of [^j]miracles, and to another prophecy, and to another the [^k]distinguishing of spirits, to another _various_ kinds of tongues, and to another the interpretation of tongues. 







###### 11 



But one and the same Spirit works all these things, distributing to each one individually just as He [^l]wills. 







###### 12 



For just as the body is one and _yet_ has many parts, and all the parts of the body, though they are many, are one body, so also is Christ. 







###### 13 



For [^m]by one Spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, and we were all made to drink of one Spirit. 







###### 14 



For the body is not one part, but many. 







###### 15 



If the foot says, "Because I am not a hand, I am not _a part_ of the body," it is not for this reason [^n]any less _a part_ of the body. 







###### 16 



And if the ear says, "Because I am not an eye, I am not _a part_ of the body," it is not for this reason [^o]any less _a part_ of the body. 







###### 17 



If the whole body were an eye, where would the hearing be? If the whole _body_ were hearing, where would the sense of smell be? 







###### 18 



But now God has arranged the parts, each one of them in the body, just as He desired. 







###### 19 



If they were all one part, where would the body be? 







###### 20 



But now there are many parts, but one body. 







###### 21 



And the eye cannot say to the hand, "I have no need of you"; or again, the head to the feet, "I have no need of you." 







###### 22 



On the contrary, [^p]it is much truer that the parts of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary; 







###### 23 



and those _parts_ of the body which we [^q]consider less honorable, [^r]on these we bestow greater honor, and our less presentable parts become much more presentable, 







###### 24 



whereas our more presentable parts have no need _of it_. But God has _so_ composed the body, giving more abundant honor to that _part_ which lacked, 







###### 25 



so that there may be no [^s]division in the body, but _that_ the parts may have the same care for one another. 







###### 26 



And if one part _of the body_ suffers, all the parts suffer with it; if a part is [^t]honored, all the parts rejoice with it. 







###### 27 



Now you are Christ's body, and individually parts of it. 







###### 28 



And God has [^u]appointed in the church, first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then [^v]miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, administrations, _and various_ kinds of tongues. 







###### 29 



All are not apostles, are they? All are not prophets, are they? All are not teachers, are they? All are not _workers of_ [^w]miracles, are they? 







###### 30 



All do not have gifts of healings, do they? All do not speak with tongues, do they? All do not interpret, do they? 







###### 31 



But earnestly desire the greater gifts. And yet, I _am going to_ show you a far better way. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Corinthians 12:2 Lit _Gentiles_; i.e., mainly Greeks and Romans, traditionally polytheistic [^b]: 1 Corinthians 12:2 Or _away_ [^c]: 1 Corinthians 12:3 Or _in_ [^d]: 1 Corinthians 12:3 Gr _anathema_ [^e]: 1 Corinthians 12:3 Or _in_ [^f]: 1 Corinthians 12:9 Or _in_ [^g]: 1 Corinthians 12:9 Lit _healings_ [^h]: 1 Corinthians 12:9 Or _in_ [^i]: 1 Corinthians 12:10 Lit _effects_ [^j]: 1 Corinthians 12:10 Or _works of power_ [^k]: 1 Corinthians 12:10 Lit _distinguishings_ [^l]: 1 Corinthians 12:11 Or _intends_ [^m]: 1 Corinthians 12:13 Or _in_ [^n]: 1 Corinthians 12:15 Lit _not_ a part [^o]: 1 Corinthians 12:16 Lit _not_ a part [^p]: 1 Corinthians 12:22 Lit _to a much greater degree the parts_ [^q]: 1 Corinthians 12:23 Or _think to be_ [^r]: 1 Corinthians 12:23 Or _these we clothe with_ [^s]: 1 Corinthians 12:25 Or _dissension_ [^t]: 1 Corinthians 12:26 Lit _glorified_ [^u]: 1 Corinthians 12:28 Lit _set some in_ [^v]: 1 Corinthians 12:28 Or _works of power_ [^w]: 1 Corinthians 12:29 Or _works of power_
