---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 16]
previous: ['1 Cor 15']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
---
# 1 Corinthians 16

***








###### 1 



Now concerning the collection for [^a]the saints, as I directed the churches of Galatia, so you are to do as well. 







###### 2 



On the first day of every week, each of you is to [^b]put aside and save as he may prosper, so that no collections _need to_ be made when I come. 







###### 3 



When I arrive, whomever you approve, I will send them with letters to take your gift to Jerusalem; 







###### 4 



and if it is appropriate for me to go also, they will go with me. 







###### 5 



But I will come to you after I go through Macedonia; for I am going through Macedonia, 







###### 6 



and perhaps I will stay with you or even spend the winter, so that you may send me on my way wherever I go. 







###### 7 



For I do not want to see you now _just_ in passing; for I hope to remain with you for some time, if the Lord permits. 







###### 8 



But I will remain in Ephesus until Pentecost; 







###### 9 



for a wide door [^c]for effective _service_ has opened to me, and there are many adversaries. 







###### 10 



Now if Timothy comes, see that he [^d]has no reason to be afraid _while_ among you, for he is doing the Lord's work, as I also am. 







###### 11 



So do not look down on him, anyone. But send him on his way in peace, so that he may come to me; for I expect him with the brothers. 







###### 12 



Now concerning our brother Apollos, I strongly encouraged him to come to you with the brothers; and it was not at all _his_ desire to come now, but he will come when he has the opportunity. 







###### 13 



Be on the alert, stand firm in the faith, act like men, be strong. 







###### 14 



All that you do must be done in love. 







###### 15 



Now I urge you, brothers _and sisters_: you know the household of Stephanas, that [^e]they are the first fruits of Achaia, and that they have devoted themselves to ministry to the [^f]saints; 







###### 16 



_I urge_ that you also be subject to such as these and to everyone who helps in the work and labors. 







###### 17 



I rejoice over the [^g]coming of Stephanas, Fortunatus, and Achaicus, because they have [^h]supplied what was lacking on your part. 







###### 18 



For they have refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore acknowledge such men. 







###### 19 



The churches of [^i]Asia greet you. Aquila and Prisca greet you heartily in the Lord, with the church that is in their house. 







###### 20 



All the brothers _and sisters_ greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss. 







###### 21 



The greeting is in my own hand--_that_ of Paul. 







###### 22 



If anyone does not love the Lord, he is to be [^j]accursed. [^k]Maranatha! 







###### 23 



The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you. 







###### 24 



My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Corinthians 16:1 I.e., the Christians in Jerusalem [^b]: 1 Corinthians 16:2 Lit _put with himself_ [^c]: 1 Corinthians 16:9 Lit _and effective_ [^d]: 1 Corinthians 16:10 Lit _is with you without reason to fear_ [^e]: 1 Corinthians 16:15 Lit _it is_ [^f]: 1 Corinthians 16:15 Lit _holy ones_; i.e., God’s people [^g]: 1 Corinthians 16:17 Or _presence_ [^h]: 1 Corinthians 16:17 Or _made up for your absence_ [^i]: 1 Corinthians 16:19 I.e., west coast province of Asia Minor [^j]: 1 Corinthians 16:22 Gr _anathema_ [^k]: 1 Corinthians 16:22 Aramaic _[Our] Lord, come!_
