---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 13]
previous: ['1 Cor 12']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 14']
---
# 1 Corinthians 13

***








###### 1 



If I speak with the tongues of mankind and of angels, but do not have love, I have become a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. 







###### 2 



If I have _the gift of_ prophecy and know all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith so as to remove mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing. 







###### 3 



And if I give away all my possessions _to charity_, and if I surrender my body so that I may [^a]glory, but do not have love, it does me no good. 







###### 4 



Love is patient, love is kind, it is not jealous; love does not brag, it is not arrogant. 







###### 5 



It does not act disgracefully, it does not seek its own _benefit_; it is not provoked, does not keep an account of a wrong _suffered_, 







###### 6 



it does not rejoice in unrighteousness, but rejoices with the truth; 







###### 7 



it [^b]keeps every confidence, it believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. 







###### 8 



Love never fails; but if _there are gifts of_ [^c]prophecy, they will be done away with; if _there are_ tongues, they will cease; if _there is_ knowledge, it will be done away with. 







###### 9 



For we know in part and prophesy in part; 







###### 10 



but when the perfect comes, the partial will be done away with. 







###### 11 



When I was a child, I used to speak like a child, think like a child, reason like a child; when I [^d]became a man, I did away with childish things. 







###### 12 



For now we see in a mirror [^e]dimly, but then face to face; now I know in part, but then I will know fully, just as I also have been fully known. 







###### 13 



But now faith, hope, _and_ love remain, these three; but the [^f]greatest of these is love. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Corinthians 13:3 I.e., in martyrdom [^b]: 1 Corinthians 13:7 Lit _covers all things_ [^c]: 1 Corinthians 13:8 Lit _prophecies_ [^d]: 1 Corinthians 13:11 Lit _have become...have done away with_ [^e]: 1 Corinthians 13:12 Lit _in a riddle_ [^f]: 1 Corinthians 13:13 Lit _greater_
