---
Aliases: [2 Samuel 22]
previous: ['2 Sam 21']
up: ['2 Samuel']
next: ['2 Sam 23']
---
# 2 Samuel 22

***
















###### 1 







David spoke the words of this song to the LORD when the LORD rescued him from the hands of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul. 















###### 2 







He said: "The LORD is my rock and my fortress [on the mountain] and my rescuer; 















###### 3 







[^a]My God, my rock, in whom I take refuge; My shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold and my refuge, My Savior--You save me from violence. 















###### 4 







"I call on the LORD, who is worthy to be praised, And I am saved from my enemies. 















###### 5 







"For the waves of death encompassed me; The torrents of [^b]destruction overwhelmed _and_ terrified me. 















###### 6 







"The cords of Sheol surrounded me; The snares of death confronted me. 















###### 7 







"In my distress I called upon the LORD; I cried out to my God, And from His temple [in the heavens] He heard my voice; My cry for help _came_ into His ears. 















###### 8 







"Then the earth shook and quaked, The foundations of the heavens trembled And were shaken, because He was angry. 















###### 9 







"Smoke went up out of His nostrils, And devouring fire from His mouth; Coals were kindled by it. 















###### 10 







"He bowed the heavens also, and came down With thick darkness under His feet. 















###### 11 







"He rode on a cherub and flew; He appeared upon the wings of the wind. 















###### 12 







"He made darkness [^c]canopies around Him, A mass of waters, thick clouds of the skies. 















###### 13 







"Out of the brightness before Him Coals of fire were set aflame. 















###### 14 







"The LORD thundered from heaven, And the Most High uttered His voice. 















###### 15 







"He sent out arrows and scattered them; Lightning, and confused them. 















###### 16 







"The channels of the sea appeared, The foundations of the world were uncovered At the rebuke of the LORD, At the blast of the breath of His nostrils. 















###### 17 







"He sent from above, He took me; He drew me out of great waters. 















###### 18 







"He rescued me from my strong enemy, From those who hated me, for they were too mighty for me. 















###### 19 







"They came upon me in the day of my calamity, But the LORD was my support. 















###### 20 







"He also brought me out to an open place; He rescued me because He delighted in me. 















###### 21 







"The LORD has dealt with me according to my righteousness; According to the cleanness of my hands He has rewarded me. 















###### 22 







"For I have kept the ways of the LORD, And have not acted wickedly against my God. 















###### 23 







"For all His judgments (legal decisions) were before me, And from His statutes I did not turn aside. 















###### 24 







"I was also blameless before Him, And kept myself from wrongdoing. 















###### 25 







"Therefore the LORD has rewarded me according to my righteousness, According to my cleanness in His sight. 















###### 26 







"With the loving _and_ loyal You show Yourself loving _and_ loyal, With the blameless You show Yourself blameless. 















###### 27 







"With the pure You show Yourself pure, With the perverted You show Yourself astute. 















###### 28 







"And You save the afflicted people; But Your eyes are on the haughty _whom_ You abase (humiliate). 















###### 29 







"For You, O LORD, are my lamp; The LORD illumines _and_ dispels my darkness. 















###### 30 







"For by You I can run upon a troop; By my God I can leap over a wall. 















###### 31 







"As for God, His way is blameless _and_ perfect; The word of the LORD is tested. He is a shield to all those who take refuge _and_ trust in Him. 















###### 32 







"For who is God, besides the LORD? And who is a rock, besides our God? 















###### 33 







"God is my strong fortress; He sets the blameless in His way. 















###### 34 







"He makes my feet like the doe's _feet_ [firm and swift]; He sets me [secure and confident] on my high places. 















###### 35 







"He trains my hands for war, So that my arms can bend (pull back) a bow of bronze. 















###### 36 







"You have also given me the shield of Your salvation, And Your help _and_ gentleness make me great. 















###### 37 







"You enlarge my steps under me, And my feet have not slipped. 















###### 38 







"I pursued my enemies and destroyed them, And I did not turn back until they were consumed (eliminated). 















###### 39 







"I consumed them and shattered them, so that they did not rise; They fell under my feet. 















###### 40 







"For You have surrounded me with strength for the battle; You have subdued under me those who stood against me. 















###### 41 







"You have also made my enemies turn their backs to me [in retreat], And I destroyed those who hated me. 















###### 42 







"They looked, but there was no savior _for them_-- _Even_ to the LORD [they looked], but He did not answer them. 















###### 43 







"Then I beat them as [small as] the dust of the earth; I crushed and stamped them as the mire (dirt, mud) of the streets. 















###### 44 







"You also have rescued me from strife with my [own] people; You have kept me as the head of the nations. People whom I have not known served me. 















###### 45 







"Foreigners pretend obedience to me; As soon as they hear [me], they obey me. 















###### 46 







"Foreigners lose heart; They come trembling out of their strongholds. 















###### 47 







"The LORD lives, and blessed be my rock, And exalted be my God, the rock of my salvation. 















###### 48 







"It is God who executes vengeance for me, And brings down [and disciplines] the peoples under me, 















###### 49 







Who also brings me out from my enemies. You even lift me above those who rise up against me; You rescue me from the violent man. 















###### 50 







"For this I will give thanks _and_ praise You, O LORD, among the nations; I will sing praises to Your name. 















###### 51 







"He is a tower of salvation _and_ great deliverance to His king, And shows lovingkindness to His anointed, To David and his offspring forever." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Samuel 22:3 Lit _the God of my rock_. [^b]: 2 Samuel 22:5 Heb _Belial_. [^c]: 2 Samuel 22:12 Some mss read _His covering_.
