---
Aliases: [2 Samuel 11]
previous: ['2 Sam 10']
up: ['2 Samuel']
next: ['2 Sam 12']
---
# 2 Samuel 11

***








###### 1 



Then it happened [^a]in the spring, at the time when kings go out _to battle_, that David sent Joab and his servants with him and all Israel, and they brought destruction on the sons of Ammon and besieged Rabbah. But David stayed in Jerusalem. 







###### 2 



Now at evening time David got up from his bed and walked around on the roof of the king's house, and from the roof he saw a woman bathing; and the woman was very beautiful in appearance. 







###### 3 



So David sent _servants_ and inquired about the woman. And _someone_ said, "Is this not Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite?" 







###### 4 



Then David sent messengers and [^b]had her brought, and when she came to him, he slept with her; and when she had purified herself from her uncleanness, she returned to her house. 







###### 5 



But the woman conceived; so she sent _word_ and informed David, and said, "I am pregnant." 







###### 6 



Then David sent _word_ to Joab: "Send me Uriah the Hittite." So Joab sent Uriah to David. 







###### 7 



When Uriah came to him, David asked about Joab's well-being and [^c]that of the people, and the condition of the war. 







###### 8 



Then David said to Uriah, "Go down to your house, and wash your feet." So Uriah left the king's house, and a gift from the king [^d]was sent after him. 







###### 9 



But Uriah slept at the door of the king's house with all the servants of his lord, and did not go down to his house. 







###### 10 



Now when they informed David, saying, "Uriah did not go down to his house," David said to Uriah, "Did you not come from a journey? Why did you not go down to your house?" 







###### 11 



And Uriah said to David, "The ark and Israel and Judah are staying in [^e]temporary shelters, and my lord Joab and the servants of my lord are camping in the open field. Should I then go to my house to eat and drink and to sleep with my wife? By your life and the life of your soul, I will not do this thing." 







###### 12 



Then David said to Uriah, "Stay here today also, and tomorrow I will let you go _back_." So Uriah remained in Jerusalem that day and the day after. 







###### 13 



Now David summoned [^f]Uriah, and he ate and drank in his presence, and he made [^g]Uriah drunk; and in the evening _Uriah_ went out to lie on his bed with his lord's servants, and he _still_ did not go down to his house. 







###### 14 



So in the morning David wrote a letter to Joab and sent _it_ by the hand of Uriah. 







###### 15 



He had written in the letter [^h]the following: "[^i]Station Uriah on the front line of the [^j]fiercest battle and pull back from him, so that he may be struck and killed." 







###### 16 



So it was as Joab kept watch on the city, that he [^k]stationed Uriah at the place where he knew there _were_ valiant men. 







###### 17 



And the men of the city went out and fought against Joab, and some of the people among David's servants fell; and Uriah the Hittite also died. 







###### 18 



Then Joab sent _a messenger_ and reported to David all the events of the war. 







###### 19 



He ordered the messenger, saying, "When you have finished telling all the events of the war to the king, 







###### 20 



then it shall be that if the king's wrath rises and he says to you, 'Why did you move against the city to fight? Did you not know that they would shoot from the wall? 







###### 21 



Who struck Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth? Did a woman not throw an upper millstone on him from the wall so that he died at Thebez? Why did you move against the wall?'--then you shall say, 'Your servant Uriah the Hittite also died.'" 







###### 22 



So the messenger departed and came and reported to David everything that Joab had sent him _to tell_. 







###### 23 



The messenger said to David, "The men prevailed against us and came out against us in the field, but we [^l]pressed them as far as the entrance of the gate. 







###### 24 



Also, the archers shot at your servants from the wall; so some of the king's servants died, and your servant Uriah the Hittite also died." 







###### 25 



Then David said to the messenger, "This is what you shall say to Joab: 'Do not let this thing [^m]displease you, for the sword devours one as well as another; [^n]fight with determination against the city and overthrow it'; and _thereby_ encourage him." 







###### 26 



Now when Uriah's wife heard that her husband Uriah was dead, she mourned for her husband. 







###### 27 



When the _time of_ mourning was over, David sent _servants_ and [^o]had her brought to his house and she became his wife; then she bore him a son. But the thing that David had done was evil in the sight of the LORD. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Samuel 11:1 Lit _at the return of the year_ [^b]: 2 Samuel 11:4 Lit _took her_ [^c]: 2 Samuel 11:7 Lit _welfare of_ [^d]: 2 Samuel 11:8 Lit _went out_ [^e]: 2 Samuel 11:11 Or _huts_ [^f]: 2 Samuel 11:13 Lit _him_ [^g]: 2 Samuel 11:13 Lit _him_ [^h]: 2 Samuel 11:15 Lit _saying_ [^i]: 2 Samuel 11:15 Lit _Give_ [^j]: 2 Samuel 11:15 Lit _severe_ [^k]: 2 Samuel 11:16 Lit _gave_ [^l]: 2 Samuel 11:23 Lit _were upon_ [^m]: 2 Samuel 11:25 Lit _be evil in your sight_ [^n]: 2 Samuel 11:25 Lit _seize your battle against_ [^o]: 2 Samuel 11:27 Lit _brought her_
