---
Aliases: [2 Samuel 12]
previous: ['2 Sam 11']
up: ['2 Samuel']
next: ['2 Sam 13']
---
# 2 Samuel 12

***








###### 1 



Then the LORD sent Nathan to David. And he came to him and [^a]said, "There were two men in a city, the one wealthy and the other poor. 







###### 2 



The wealthy man had a great many flocks and herds. 







###### 3 



But the poor man had nothing at all except one little ewe lamb Which he bought and nurtured; And it grew up together with him and his children. It would eat [^b]scraps from him and drink from his cup and lie [^c]in his lap, And was like a daughter to him. 







###### 4 



Now a visitor came to the wealthy man, And he could not bring himself to take _any animal_ from his own flock or his own herd, To prepare for the traveler who had come to him; So he took the poor man's ewe lamb and prepared it for the man who had come to him." 







###### 5 



Then David's anger burned greatly against the man, and he said to Nathan, "As the LORD lives, the man who has done this certainly [^d]deserves to die! 







###### 6 



So he must make restitution for the lamb four times over, since he did this thing and [^e]had no compassion." 







###### 7 



Nathan then said to David, "You yourself are the man! This is what the LORD, the God of Israel says: 'It is I who anointed you as king over Israel, and it is I who rescued you from the hand of Saul. 







###### 8 



I also gave you your master's house and _put_ your master's wives [^f]into your care, and I gave you the house of Israel and Judah; and if _that had been_ too little, I would have added to you [^g]many more things like these! 







###### 9 



Why have you despised the word of the LORD, by doing evil in His sight? You have struck and killed Uriah the Hittite with the sword, you have taken his wife as your wife, and you have slaughtered him with the sword of the sons of Ammon. 







###### 10 



Now then, the sword shall never leave your house, because you have despised Me and have taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife.' 







###### 11 



This is what the LORD says: 'Behold, I am going to raise up evil against you from your own household; I will even take your wives before your eyes and give _them_ to your companion, and he will sleep with your wives in [^h]broad daylight. 







###### 12 



Indeed, you did it secretly, but I will do this thing before all Israel, and [^i]in open daylight.'" 







###### 13 



Then David said to Nathan, "I have sinned against the LORD." And Nathan said to David, "The LORD also has allowed your sin to pass; you shall not die. 







###### 14 



However, since by this deed you have shown utter disrespect for the [^j]LORD, the child himself who is born to you shall certainly die." 







###### 15 



Then Nathan went to his house. ## Loss of a Child _Later_ the LORD struck the child that Uriah's [^k]widow bore to David, so that he was _very_ sick. 







###### 16 



David therefore pleaded with God for the child; and David fasted and went and lay all night on the ground. 







###### 17 



The elders of his household stood beside him in order to help him up from the ground, but he was unwilling and would not eat food with them. 







###### 18 



Then it happened on the seventh day that the child died. And David's servants were afraid to tell him that the child was dead, for they said, "Behold, while the child was _still_ alive, we spoke to him and he did not listen to [^l]us. How then can we tell him that the child is dead, since he might do _himself_ harm?" 







###### 19 



But when David saw that his servants were whispering together, David perceived that the child was dead; so David said to his servants, "Is the child dead?" And they said, "He is dead." 







###### 20 



So David got up from the ground, washed, anointed _himself_, and changed his clothes; and he went into the house of the LORD and worshiped. Then he went to his own house, and when he asked, they served him food, and he ate. 







###### 21 



Then his servants said to him, "What is this thing that you have done? You fasted and wept for the child _while he was_ [^m]alive; but when the child died, you got up and ate food." 







###### 22 



And he said, "While the child was still alive, I fasted and wept; for I said, 'Who knows, the LORD may be gracious to me, and the child may live.' 







###### 23 



But now he has died; why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I am going to him, but he will not return to me." ## Solomon Born 







###### 24 



Then David comforted his wife Bathsheba, and went in to her and slept with her; and she gave birth to a son, and [^n]he named him Solomon. Now the LORD loved him, 







###### 25 



and sent _word_ through Nathan the prophet, and he named him [^o]Jedidiah for the LORD's sake. ## War Again 







###### 26 



Now Joab fought against Rabbah of the sons of Ammon, and captured the royal city. 







###### 27 



Then Joab sent messengers to David and said, "I have fought against Rabbah, I have even captured the city of waters. 







###### 28 



Now then, gather the rest of the people and camp opposite the city and capture it, or I will capture the city myself and it will be named after me." 







###### 29 



So David gathered all the people and went to Rabbah, and he fought against it and captured it. 







###### 30 



Then he took the crown of [^p]their king from his head; and its weight _was_ a [^q]talent of gold, and _it had_ a precious stone; and it was _placed_ on David's head. And he brought out the plunder of the city in great amounts. 







###### 31 



He also brought out the people who were in it, and put _some to work_ at saws, iron picks, and iron axes, and made [^r]others [^s]serve at the brick [^t]works. And he did the same to all the cities of the sons of Ammon. Then David and all the people returned _to_ Jerusalem. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Samuel 12:1 Lit _said to him_ [^b]: 2 Samuel 12:3 Lit _his piece_ [^c]: 2 Samuel 12:3 Or _on his chest_ [^d]: 2 Samuel 12:5 Lit _is a son of death_ [^e]: 2 Samuel 12:6 Or _showed no consideration_ [^f]: 2 Samuel 12:8 Lit _on your lap_; or _chest_ [^g]: 2 Samuel 12:8 Lit _like these and like these_ [^h]: 2 Samuel 12:11 Lit _the sight of this sun_ [^i]: 2 Samuel 12:12 Lit _before the sun_ [^j]: 2 Samuel 12:14 Lit _enemies of the L__ord_ (a euphemistic reference to God); DSS _word of the L__ord_ [^k]: 2 Samuel 12:15 Lit _wife_ [^l]: 2 Samuel 12:18 Lit _our voice_ [^m]: 2 Samuel 12:21 Some ancient versions _still alive_ [^n]: 2 Samuel 12:24 Some mss _she_ [^o]: 2 Samuel 12:25 I.e., beloved of the Lord [^p]: 2 Samuel 12:30 Or _Milcom_; MT _Malcam_, prob. a variant spelling of _Milcom_; cf. Zeph 1:5 [^q]: 2 Samuel 12:30 About 75 lb. or 34 kg [^r]: 2 Samuel 12:31 Lit _them_ [^s]: 2 Samuel 12:31 Another reading of MT lit _pass through_ [^t]: 2 Samuel 12:31 Lit _mold_; i.e., for molding bricks
