---
Aliases: [2 Samuel 10]
previous: ['2 Sam 9']
up: ['2 Samuel']
next: ['2 Sam 11']
---
# 2 Samuel 10

***








###### 1 



Now it happened afterward that the king of the Ammonites died, and his son Hanun became king in his place. 







###### 2 



Then David said, "I will show kindness to Hanun the son of Nahash, just as his father showed kindness to me." So David sent [^a]some of his servants to console him about his father. But when David's servants came to the land of the Ammonites, 







###### 3 



the commanders of the Ammonites said to their lord Hanun, "[^b]Do you think that David is _simply_ honoring your father since he has sent you _servants_ [^c]to console you? Has David not sent his servants to you in order to explore the city, to spy it out and overthrow it?" 







###### 4 



So Hanun took David's servants and shaved off half of their beards, and cut off their robes in the middle as far as their buttocks, and sent them away. 







###### 5 



When _messengers_ informed David, he sent _servants_ to meet them, because the men were extremely humiliated. And the king said, "Stay in Jericho until your beards grow _back_, and _then_ you shall return." 







###### 6 



Now when the sons of Ammon saw that they had become repulsive to David, the sons of Ammon sent _messengers_ and hired the Arameans of Beth-rehob and the Arameans of Zobah, twenty thousand foot soldiers, and the king of Maacah _with_ a thousand men, and the men of Tob _with_ twelve thousand men. 







###### 7 



When David heard _about this_, he sent Joab and all the army, the warriors. 







###### 8 



And the sons of Ammon came out and lined up for battle at the entrance of the [^d]city, while the Arameans of Zobah and of Rehob and the men of Tob and Maacah _were stationed_ by themselves in the field. 







###### 9 



Now when Joab saw that [^e]the battle was set against him at the front and at the rear, he selected _warriors_ from all the choice men in Israel, and lined _them_ up against the Arameans. 







###### 10 



But the remainder of the people he placed [^f]under the command of his brother Abishai, and he lined _them_ up against the sons of Ammon. 







###### 11 



And he said, "If the Arameans are too strong for me, then you shall help me; but if the sons of Ammon are too strong for you, then I will come to help you. 







###### 12 



Be strong, and let's show ourselves courageous for the sake of our people and the cities of our God; and may the LORD do what is good in His sight." 







###### 13 



So Joab and the people who were with him advanced to the battle against the Arameans, and they fled from him. 







###### 14 



When the sons of Ammon saw that the Arameans had fled, they _also_ fled from Abishai and entered the city. Then Joab returned from _fighting_ against the sons of Ammon and came to Jerusalem. 







###### 15 



When the Arameans saw that they had been [^g]defeated by Israel, they assembled together. 







###### 16 



And Hadadezer sent _word_ and brought out the Arameans who were beyond the _Euphrates_ River, and they came to Helam; and Shobach the commander of the army of Hadadezer [^h]led them. 







###### 17 



Now when it was reported to David, he gathered all Israel together and crossed the Jordan, and came to Helam. And the Arameans lined up against David and fought him. 







###### 18 



But the Arameans fled from Israel, and David killed seven hundred charioteers of the Arameans and forty thousand horsemen, and struck Shobach the commander of their army, and he died there. 







###### 19 



When all the kings, servants of Hadadezer, saw that they had been [^i]defeated by Israel, they made peace with Israel and served them. So the Arameans were afraid to help the sons of Ammon anymore. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Samuel 10:2 Lit _by the hand of_ [^b]: 2 Samuel 10:3 Lit _In your eyes is David honoring_ [^c]: 2 Samuel 10:3 Lit _consoling_ [^d]: 2 Samuel 10:8 Lit _gate_ [^e]: 2 Samuel 10:9 Lit _the faces of the battle were against_ [^f]: 2 Samuel 10:10 Lit _in the hand of_ [^g]: 2 Samuel 10:15 Lit _struck_ [^h]: 2 Samuel 10:16 Lit was _before them_ [^i]: 2 Samuel 10:19 Lit _struck_
