---
Aliases: [2 Samuel 22]
previous: ['2 Sam 21']
up: ['2 Samuel']
next: ['2 Sam 23']
---
# 2 Samuel 22

***








###### 1 



Now David spoke the words of this song to the LORD on the day that the LORD had saved him from the [^a]hand of all his enemies and from the [^b]hand of Saul. 







###### 2 



He said, "The LORD is my [^c]rock and my fortress and my deliverer; 







###### 3 



[^d]My God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, My shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold and my refuge; My savior, You save me from violence. 







###### 4 



I call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised, And I am saved from my enemies. 







###### 5 



For the waves of death encompassed me; The floods of [^e]destruction terrified me; 







###### 6 



The ropes of [^f]Sheol surrounded me; The snares of death confronted me. 







###### 7 



In my distress I called upon the LORD, Yes, I called out to my God; And from His temple He heard my voice, And my cry for help _came_ into His ears. 







###### 8 



Then the earth shook and quaked, The foundations of heaven were trembling And were shaken, because He was angry. 







###### 9 



Smoke went up [^g]out of His nostrils, And fire from His mouth was devouring; Coals were kindled by it. 







###### 10 



He also bowed the heavens down low, and came down With thick darkness under His feet. 







###### 11 



He rode on a cherub and flew; He [^h]appeared on the wings of the wind. 







###### 12 



He made darkness canopies around Him, A mass of waters, thick clouds of the sky. 







###### 13 



From the brightness before Him Coals of fire were kindled. 







###### 14 



The LORD thundered from heaven, And the Most High uttered His voice. 







###### 15 



And He shot arrows and scattered them, Lightning, and [^i]routed them. 







###### 16 



Then the channels of the sea appeared, The foundations of the world were exposed By the rebuke of the LORD, From the blast of the breath of His nostrils. 







###### 17 



He sent from on high, He took me; He drew me out of many waters. 







###### 18 



He rescued me from my strong enemy, From those who hated me, for they were too strong for me. 







###### 19 



They confronted me on the day of my disaster, But the LORD was my support. 







###### 20 



He also brought me out into an open place; He rescued me, because He delighted in me. 







###### 21 



The LORD has treated me in accordance with my righteousness; In accordance with the cleanliness of my hands He has repaid me. 







###### 22 



For I have kept the ways of the LORD, And have not acted wickedly against my God. 







###### 23 



For all His ordinances _were_ before me, And _as for_ His statutes, I did not deviate from [^j]them. 







###### 24 



I was also [^k]blameless toward Him, And I have kept myself from my wrongdoing. 







###### 25 



So the LORD has repaid me in accordance with my righteousness, In accordance with my cleanliness before His eyes. 







###### 26 



With _the one who is_ faithful You show Yourself faithful, With the [^l]blameless one You prove Yourself [^m]blameless; 







###### 27 



With the _one who is_ pure You show Yourself pure, But with the perverted You [^n]show Yourself astute. 







###### 28 



And You save an afflicted people; But Your eyes are on the haughty _whom_ You humiliate. 







###### 29 



For You are my lamp, LORD; And the LORD illuminates my darkness. 







###### 30 



For by You I can run at a [^o]troop of warriors; By my God I can leap over a wall. 







###### 31 



As for God, His way is [^p]blameless; The word of the LORD is refined; He is a shield to all who take refuge in Him. 







###### 32 



For who is God, except the LORD? And who is a rock, except our God? 







###### 33 



God is my strong fortress; And He [^q]sets the [^r]blameless on [^s]His way. 







###### 34 



He makes [^t]my feet like deer's _feet_, And sets me on my high places. 







###### 35 



He trains my hands for battle, So that my arms can bend a bow of bronze. 







###### 36 



You have also given me the shield of Your salvation, And Your [^u]help makes me great. 







###### 37 



You enlarge my steps under me, And my [^v]feet have not slipped. 







###### 38 



I pursued my enemies and eliminated them, And I did not turn back until they were finished off. 







###### 39 



And I have devoured them and smashed them, so that they would not rise; And they fell under my feet. 







###### 40 



For You have encircled me with strength for battle; You have forced those who rose up against me to bow down under me. 







###### 41 



You have also made my enemies turn _their_ backs to me, And I [^w]destroyed those who hated me. 







###### 42 



They looked, but there was no one to save _them_; _Even_ to the LORD, but He did not answer them. 







###### 43 



Then I pulverized them as the dust of the earth; I crushed _and_ trampled them like the mud of the streets. 







###### 44 



You have also saved me from the contentions of my people; You have kept me as head of the nations; A people I have not known serve me. 







###### 45 



Foreigners pretend to obey me; As soon as they hear, they obey me. 







###### 46 



Foreigners lose heart, And [^x]come trembling out of their fortresses. 







###### 47 



The LORD lives, and blessed be my Rock; And exalted be [^y]my God, the rock of my salvation, 







###### 48 



The God who executes vengeance for me, And brings down peoples under me, 







###### 49 



Who also brings me out from my enemies; You also raise me above those who rise up against me; You rescue me from the violent person. 







###### 50 



Therefore I will [^z]give thanks to You, LORD, among the nations, And I will sing praises to Your name. 







###### 51 



_He is_ a tower of [^aa]salvation _to_ His king, And shows favor to His anointed, To David and his [^ab]descendants forever." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Samuel 22:1 Lit _palm_ [^b]: 2 Samuel 22:1 Lit _palm_ [^c]: 2 Samuel 22:2 Lit _crag_ [^d]: 2 Samuel 22:3 As in LXX; MT _God of my rock_ [^e]: 2 Samuel 22:5 Or _wickedness_; Heb _Belial_ [^f]: 2 Samuel 22:6 I.e., the netherworld [^g]: 2 Samuel 22:9 I.e., in his anger [^h]: 2 Samuel 22:11 Many mss _glided_ [^i]: 2 Samuel 22:15 Lit _confused_ [^j]: 2 Samuel 22:23 Lit _it_ [^k]: 2 Samuel 22:24 Lit _complete_; or _having integrity_ [^l]: 2 Samuel 22:26 Lit _complete_; or _having integrity_ [^m]: 2 Samuel 22:26 Lit _complete_; or _having integrity_ [^n]: 2 Samuel 22:27 As in two Heb mss and Ps 18:26; MT _pretend stupidity_ [^o]: 2 Samuel 22:30 Or _wall_ [^p]: 2 Samuel 22:31 Lit _complete_; or _having integrity_ [^q]: 2 Samuel 22:33 Or _sets free_ [^r]: 2 Samuel 22:33 Lit _complete_; or _having integrity_ [^s]: 2 Samuel 22:33 Another reading is _my_ [^t]: 2 Samuel 22:34 Another reading is _His_ [^u]: 2 Samuel 22:36 Lit _answering_ [^v]: 2 Samuel 22:37 Lit _ankles_ [^w]: 2 Samuel 22:41 Or _silenced_ [^x]: 2 Samuel 22:46 Reading based on Ps 18:45; MT _belt up themselves_ [^y]: 2 Samuel 22:47 As in LXX; MT _the God of the rock_ [^z]: 2 Samuel 22:50 Or _praise_ [^aa]: 2 Samuel 22:51 Lit _acts of salvation_ [^ab]: 2 Samuel 22:51 Lit _seed_
