---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 16]
previous: ['1 Cor 15']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
---
# 1 Corinthians 16

***
















###### 1 







Now concerning the money collected for [the relief of] the saints [in Jerusalem], you are to do the same as I directed the churches of Galatia _to do_. 















###### 2 







On the first day of every week each one of you is to put something aside, in proportion to his prosperity, and save it so that no collections [will need to] be made when I come. 















###### 3 







When I arrive, I will send whomever you approve with letters [of authorization] to take your gift [of charity and love] to Jerusalem; 















###### 4 







and if it is fitting for me to go too, they will accompany me. 















###### 5 







I will visit you after I go through Macedonia, for I am only passing through Macedonia; 















###### 6 







but it may be that I will stay with you [for a while], or even spend the winter, so that you may send me on my way to wherever I may go _afterward_. 















###### 7 







For I do not wish to see you right now _just_ in passing, but I hope to remain with you for some time [later on], if the Lord permits. 















###### 8 







But I will stay in Ephesus until [^a]Pentecost, 















###### 9 







because a wide door for effective service has opened to me [in Ephesus, a very promising opportunity], and there are many adversaries. 















###### 10 







If Timothy comes, see to it that [you put him at ease, so that] he has nothing to fear in regard to you, for he is [devotedly] doing the Lord's work, just as I am. 















###### 11 







So allow no one to treat him with disdain [as if he were inconsequential]. But send him off [cordially, and speed him on his way] in peace, so that he may come to me, for I am expecting him [to come along] with the _other_ brothers. 















###### 12 







As for our brother Apollos, I have strongly encouraged him to visit you with the other brothers. It was not at all his desire to come now, but he will come when he has the opportunity. 















###### 13 







Be on guard; stand firm in your faith [in God, respecting His precepts and keeping your doctrine sound]. Act like [mature] men _and_ be courageous; be strong. 















###### 14 







Let everything you do be done in love [motivated and inspired by God's love for us]. 















###### 15 







Brothers and sisters, you know that _those of_ the household of Stephanas were the first converts in Achaia, and that they have devoted themselves for ministry to [^b]God's people--now I urge you 















###### 16 







to be subject to such leaders [treating them with courtesy and respect], and to everyone who helps in the work and labors [for the benefit of yourselves and the church]. 















###### 17 







I rejoice because Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus have arrived, for they have made up for your absence. 















###### 18 







They have refreshed my spirit as well as yours. So fully acknowledge such men _and_ deeply appreciate them. 















###### 19 







The churches of Asia send you their greetings. Aquila and Prisca, together with the church [that meets] in their house, send you their warm greetings in the Lord. 















###### 20 







All the believers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss. 















###### 21 







This greeting is in my own hand--Paul. 















###### 22 







If anyone does not love the Lord [does not obey and respect and believe in Jesus Christ and His message], he is to be accursed. Maranatha (O our Lord, come)! 















###### 23 







The grace of our Lord Jesus [His unmerited favor, His spiritual blessing, His profound mercy] be with you. 















###### 24 







My love be with all of you in Christ Jesus. Amen. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Corinthians 16:8 Feast of the Harvest, also called Feast of Weeks. [^b]: 1 Corinthians 16:15 Lit _the saints_.
