---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 12]
previous: ['1 Cor 11']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 13']
---
# 1 Corinthians 12

***
















###### 1 







Now about the spiritual _gifts_ [the special endowments given by the Holy Spirit], brothers and sisters, I do not want you to be uninformed. 















###### 2 







You know that when you were pagans, _you were_ led off after speechless idols; however you were led off [whether by impulse or habit]. 















###### 3 







Therefore I want you to know that no one speaking by the [power and influence of the] Spirit of God can say, "Jesus be cursed," and no one can say, "Jesus is [my] Lord," except by [the power and influence of] the Holy Spirit. 















###### 4 







Now there are [distinctive] varieties of _spiritual_ gifts [special abilities given by the grace and extraordinary power of the Holy Spirit operating in believers], but it is the same Spirit [who grants them and empowers believers]. 















###### 5 







And there are [distinctive] varieties of ministries _and_ service, but it is the same Lord [who is served]. 















###### 6 







And there are [distinctive] ways of working [to accomplish things], but it is the same God who produces all things in all _believers_ [inspiring, energizing, and empowering them]. 















###### 7 







But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit [the spiritual illumination and the enabling of the Holy Spirit] for the common good. 















###### 8 







To one is given through the [Holy] Spirit [the power to speak] the message of wisdom, and to another [the power to express] the word of knowledge _and_ understanding according to the same Spirit; 















###### 9 







to another [wonder-working] faith [is given] by the same [Holy] Spirit, and to another the [extraordinary] gifts of healings by the one Spirit; 















###### 10 







and to another the working of [^a]miracles, and to another prophecy [foretelling the future, speaking a new message from God to the people], and to another discernment of spirits [the ability to distinguish sound, godly doctrine from the deceptive doctrine of man-made religions and cults], to another _various_ kinds of [unknown] tongues, and to another interpretation of tongues. 















###### 11 







All these things [the gifts, the achievements, the abilities, the empowering] are brought about by one and the same [Holy] Spirit, distributing to each one individually just as He chooses. 















###### 12 







For just as the body is one and yet has many parts, and all the parts, though many, form [only] one body, so [^b]it is with Christ. 















###### 13 







For by one [Holy] Spirit we were all baptized into one body, [spiritually transformed--united together] whether Jews or Greeks (Gentiles), slaves or free, and we were all made to drink of one [Holy] Spirit [since the same Holy Spirit fills each life]. 















###### 14 







For the [human] body does not consist of one part, but of many [limbs and organs]. 















###### 15 







If the foot says, "Because I am not a hand, I am not _a part_ of the body," is it not on the contrary still _a part_ of the body? 















###### 16 







If the ear says, "Because I am not an eye, I am not _a part_ of the body," is it not on the contrary still _a part_ of the body? 















###### 17 







If the whole body were an eye, where would the hearing be? If the whole [body] were an ear, where would the sense of smell be? 















###### 18 







But now [as things really are], God has placed _and_ arranged the parts in the body, each one of them, just as He willed _and_ saw fit [with the best balance of function]. 















###### 19 







If they all were a single _organ_, where would [the rest of] the body be? 















###### 20 







But now [as things really are] there are many parts [different limbs and organs], but a single body. 















###### 21 







The eye cannot say to the hand, "I have no need of you," nor again the head to the feet, "I have no need of you." 















###### 22 







But quite the contrary, the parts of the body that seem to be weaker are [absolutely] necessary; 















###### 23 







and as for those _parts_ of the body which we consider less honorable, these we treat with greater honor; and our less presentable parts are treated with greater modesty, 















###### 24 







while our more presentable parts do not require it. But God has combined the [whole] body, giving greater honor to that part which lacks it, 















###### 25 







so that there would be no division _or_ discord in the body [that is, lack of adaptation of the parts to each other], but that the parts may have the same concern for one another. 















###### 26 







And if one member suffers, all the parts share the suffering; if one member is honored, all rejoice with it. 















###### 27 







Now you [collectively] are Christ's body, and individually [you are] members of it [each with his own special purpose and function]. 















###### 28 







So God has appointed _and_ placed in the church [for His own use]: first apostles [chosen by Christ], second prophets [those who foretell the future, those who speak a new message from God to the people], third teachers, then those who work miracles, then those with the gifts of healings, the helpers, the administrators, and speakers in _various_ kinds of [unknown] tongues. 















###### 29 







Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all workers of miracles? 















###### 30 







Do all have gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret? 















###### 31 







But earnestly desire _and_ strive for the greater gifts [if acquiring them is going to be your goal]. And yet I will show you a still more excellent way [one of the choicest graces and the highest of them all: unselfish love]. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Corinthians 12:10 I.e. wonderful events or occurrences beyond human capability which manifest the supernatural power of God and fulfill His purpose. [^b]: 1 Corinthians 12:12 Lit _is Christ_.
