---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 13]
previous: ['1 Cor 12']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 14']
---
# 1 Corinthians 13

***
















###### 1 







If I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, but have not [^a]love [for others growing out of God's love for me], then I have become only a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal [just an annoying distraction]. 















###### 2 







And if I have _the gift of_ prophecy [and speak a new message from God to the people], and understand all mysteries, and [possess] all knowledge; and if I have all [sufficient] faith so that I can remove mountains, but do not have love [reaching out to others], I am nothing. 















###### 3 







If I give all my possessions to feed _the poor_, and if I surrender my body [^b]to be burned, but do not have love, it does me no good at all. 















###### 4 







Love endures with patience _and_ serenity, love is kind _and_ thoughtful, and is not jealous _or_ envious; love does not brag and is not proud _or_ arrogant. 















###### 5 







It is not rude; it is not self-seeking, it is not provoked [nor overly sensitive and easily angered]; it does not take into account a wrong _endured_. 















###### 6 







It does not rejoice at injustice, but rejoices with the truth [when right and truth prevail]. 















###### 7 







Love bears all things [regardless of what comes], believes all things [looking for the best in each one], hopes all things [remaining steadfast during difficult times], endures all things [without weakening]. 















###### 8 







Love never fails [it never fades nor ends]. But as for prophecies, they will pass away; as for tongues, they will cease; as for the gift of special knowledge, it will pass away. 















###### 9 







For we know in part, and we prophesy in part [for our knowledge is fragmentary and incomplete]. 















###### 10 







But when that which is complete _and_ perfect comes, that which is incomplete _and_ partial will pass away. 















###### 11 







When I was a child, I talked like a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child; when I became a man, I did away with childish things. 















###### 12 







For now [in this time of imperfection] we see in a mirror dimly [a blurred reflection, a riddle, an enigma], but then [when the time of perfection comes we will see reality] face to face. Now I know in part [just in fragments], but then I will know fully, just as I have been fully known [by God]. 















###### 13 







And now there remain: faith [abiding trust in God and His promises], hope [confident expectation of eternal salvation], love [unselfish love for others growing out of God's love for me], these three [the choicest graces]; but the greatest of these is love. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Corinthians 13:1 I.e. a profound thoughtfulness and unselfish concern for other believers regardless of their circumstances or station in life. [^b]: 1 Corinthians 13:3 Early mss read _so that I may boast_, i.e. as a martyr.
