---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 15]
previous: ['1 Cor 14']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 16']
---
# 1 Corinthians 15

***
















###### 1 







Now brothers and sisters, let me remind you [once again] of the good news [of salvation] which I preached to you, which you welcomed _and_ accepted and on which you stand [by faith]. 















###### 2 







By this _faith_ you are saved [reborn from above--spiritually transformed, renewed, and set apart for His purpose], if you hold firmly to the word which I preached to you, unless you believed in vain [just superficially and without complete commitment]. 















###### 3 







For I passed on to you as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins according to [that which] the Scriptures [foretold], 















###### 4 







and that He was buried, and that He was [bodily] raised on the third day according to [that which] the Scriptures [foretold], 















###### 5 







and that He appeared to Cephas (Peter), then to the [^a]Twelve. 















###### 6 







After that He appeared to more than five hundred brothers and sisters at one time, the majority of whom are still alive, but some have fallen asleep [in death]. 















###### 7 







Then He was seen by James, then by all the apostles, 















###### 8 







and last of all, as to one [^b]untimely (prematurely, traumatically) born, He appeared to me also. 















###### 9 







For I am the least [worthy] of the apostles, and not fit to be called an apostle, because I [at one time] fiercely oppressed _and_ violently persecuted the church of God. 















###### 10 







But by the [remarkable] grace of God I am what I am, and His grace toward me was not without effect. In fact, I worked harder than all of the apostles, though it was not I, but the grace of God [His unmerited favor and blessing which was] with me. 















###### 11 







So whether it was I or they, this is what we preach, and this is what you believed _and_ trusted in _and_ relied on with confidence. 















###### 12 







Now if Christ is preached as raised from the dead, how is it that [^c]some among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead? 















###### 13 







But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised; 















###### 14 







and if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is vain [useless, amounting to nothing], and your faith is also vain [imaginary, unfounded, devoid of value and benefit--not based on truth]. 















###### 15 







We are even discovered to be false witnesses [misrepresenting] God, because we testified concerning Him that He raised Christ, whom He did not raise, if in fact the dead are not raised. 















###### 16 







For if the dead are not raised, then Christ has not been raised, either; 















###### 17 







and if Christ has not been raised, your faith is worthless _and_ powerless [mere delusion]; you are still in your sins [and under the control and penalty of sin]. 















###### 18 







Then those also who have fallen asleep in Christ are lost. 















###### 19 







If we who are [abiding] in Christ have hoped only in this life [and this is all there is], then we are of all people most miserable _and_ to be pitied. ## The Order of Resurrection 















###### 20 







But now [as things really are] Christ has _in fact_ been raised from the dead, [and He became] the first fruits [that is, the first to be resurrected with an incorruptible, immortal body, foreshadowing the resurrection] of those who have fallen asleep [in death]. 















###### 21 







For since [it was] by a man that death _came_ [into the world], it is also by a Man that the resurrection of the dead _has come_. 















###### 22 







For just as [^d]in Adam all die, so also [^e]in Christ all will be made alive. 















###### 23 







But each in his own order: Christ the first fruits, then those who are Christ's [own will be resurrected with incorruptible, immortal bodies] at His coming. 















###### 24 







After that comes the end (completion), when He hands over the kingdom to God the Father, after He has made inoperative _and_ abolished every ruler and every authority and power. 















###### 25 







For Christ must reign [as King] until He has put all His enemies under His feet. 















###### 26 







The last enemy to be abolished _and_ put to an end is death. 















###### 27 







For He (the Father) has put all things in subjection under His (Christ's) feet. But when He says, "All things have been put in subjection [under Christ]," it is clear that He (the Father) who put all things in subjection to Him (Christ) is excepted [since the Father is not in subjection to His own Son]. 















###### 28 







However, when all things are subjected to Him (Christ), then the Son Himself will also be subjected to the One (the Father) who put all things under Him, so that God may be all in all [manifesting His glory without any opposition, the supreme indwelling and controlling factor of life]. 















###### 29 







Otherwise, what will those do who are being [^f]baptized for the dead? If the dead are not raised at all, why are people even baptized for them? 















###### 30 







[For that matter] why are we [running such risks and putting ourselves] [^g]in danger [nearly] every hour [if there is no resurrection]? 















###### 31 







I assure you, believers, by the pride which I have in you in [your union with] Christ Jesus our Lord, I die daily [I face death and die to self]. 















###### 32 







What good has it done me if, [merely] from a human point of view, I [^h]fought with wild animals at Ephesus? If the dead are not raised [at all], let us eat and drink [enjoying ourselves now], for tomorrow we die. 















###### 33 







Do not be deceived: [^i]"Bad company corrupts good morals." 















###### 34 







Be sober-minded [be sensible, wake up from your spiritual stupor] as you ought, and stop sinning; for some [of you] have no knowledge of God [you are disgracefully ignorant of Him, and ignore His truths]. I say this to your shame. 















###### 35 







But someone will say, "How are the dead raised? And with what kind of body will they come?" 















###### 36 







You fool! Every time you plant _seed_ you sow something that does not come to life [germinating, springing up and growing] unless it _first_ dies. 















###### 37 







The seed you sow is not the body (the plant) which it is going to become, but it is a bare seed, perhaps of wheat or some other grain. 















###### 38 







But God gives it a body just as He planned, and to each kind of seed a body of its own [is given]. 















###### 39 







All flesh is not the same. There is one kind for humans, another for animals, another for birds, and another for fish. 















###### 40 







There are also heavenly bodies [sun, moon and stars] and earthly bodies [humans, animals, and plants], but the glory _and_ beauty of the heavenly is one kind, and the _glory_ of the earthly is another. 















###### 41 







There is a glory _and_ beauty of the sun, another glory of the moon, and yet another [distinctive] glory of the stars; and one star differs from another in glory _and_ brilliance. 















###### 42 







So it is with the resurrection of the dead. The [human] body that is sown is perishable _and_ mortal, it is raised imperishable _and_ immortal. 















###### 43 







It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in strength; 















###### 44 







it is sown a natural body [mortal, suited to earth], it is raised a spiritual body [immortal, suited to heaven]. As surely as there is a physical body, there is also a spiritual _body_. 















###### 45 







So it is written [in Scripture], "The first man, Adam, became a living soul (an individual);" the last Adam (Christ) _became_ a life-giving spirit [restoring the dead to life]. 















###### 46 







However, the spiritual [the immortal life] is not first, but the physical [the mortal life]; then the spiritual. 















###### 47 







The first man [Adam] is from the earth, earthy [made of dust]; the second Man [Christ, the Lord] is from heaven. 















###### 48 







As is the earthly man [the man of dust], so are those who are of earth; and as is the heavenly [Man], so are those who are of heaven. 















###### 49 







Just as we have borne the image of the earthly [the man of dust], [^j]we will also bear the image of the heavenly [the Man of heaven]. ## The Mystery of Resurrection 















###### 50 







Now I say this, believers, that flesh and blood cannot inherit _nor_ be part of the kingdom of God; nor does the perishable (mortal) inherit the imperishable (immortal). 















###### 51 







Listen very carefully, I tell you a mystery [a secret truth decreed by God and previously hidden, but now revealed]; we will not all sleep [in death], but we will all be [completely] changed [wondrously transformed], 















###### 52 







in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at [the sound of] the last trumpet call. For a trumpet will sound, and the dead [who believed in Christ] will be raised imperishable, and we will be [completely] changed [wondrously transformed]. 















###### 53 







For this perishable [part of us] must put on the imperishable [nature], and this mortal [part of us that is capable of dying] must put on immortality [which is freedom from death]. 















###### 54 







And when this perishable puts on the imperishable, and this mortal puts on immortality, then the Scripture will be fulfilled that says, "Death is swallowed up in victory (vanquished forever). 















###### 55 







O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting?" 















###### 56 







The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin [by which it brings death] is the law; 















###### 57 







but thanks be to God, who gives us the victory [as conquerors] through our Lord Jesus Christ. 















###### 58 







Therefore, my beloved brothers and sisters, be steadfast, immovable, always excelling in the work of the Lord [always doing your best and doing more than is needed], being _continually_ aware that your labor [even to the point of exhaustion] in the Lord is not futile _nor_ wasted [it is never without purpose]. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Corinthians 15:5 A title referring to the original disciples chosen by Jesus (including Judas). A few hours after betraying Jesus, Judas committed suicide (Matt 27:5) leaving only the eleven (Matt 28:16; Mark 16:14; Luke 24:9, 33). [^b]: 1 Corinthians 15:8 Paul’s life-changing encounter with the resurrected Christ occurred on the road to Damascus (Acts 9). [^c]: 1 Corinthians 15:12 Perhaps these were converted Sadducees, who as a sect denied the possibility of a resurrection (Acts 23:8). [^d]: 1 Corinthians 15:22 Because of our physical nature as descendants of Adam. [^e]: 1 Corinthians 15:22 Because of our spiritual nature as born-again believers in Christ. [^f]: 1 Corinthians 15:29 This has nothing to do with Christian baptism or salvation. Paul may be referring to the practices of a pagan religion that required a ritual washing to enter an afterlife. [^g]: 1 Corinthians 15:30 Paul’s life was continuously threatened because of his public commitment to Christ. [^h]: 1 Corinthians 15:32 This may refer figuratively to the furious crowd that rose up against Paul in Ephesus, rather than to literal animals (Acts 19:23-41). [^i]: 1 Corinthians 15:33 Paul quotes this one verse maxim from the writings of the Greek dramatist Menander (342-291 b.c.). “Bad company” in this case undoubtedly refers to the teachers who were denying the truth of the resurrection. [^j]: 1 Corinthians 15:49 Two early mss read “let us also.”
