---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 14]
previous: ['1 Cor 13']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 15']
---
# 1 Corinthians 14

***
















###### 1 







Pursue [this] love [with eagerness, make it your goal], yet earnestly desire _and_ cultivate the spiritual _gifts_ [to be used by believers for the benefit of the church], but especially that you may [^a]prophesy [to foretell the future, to speak a new message from God to the people]. 















###### 2 







For one who speaks in an _unknown_ tongue does not speak to people but to God; for no one understands him _or_ catches his meaning, but by the Spirit he speaks mysteries [secret truths, hidden things]. 















###### 3 







But [on the other hand] the one who prophesies speaks to people for edification [to promote their spiritual growth] and [speaks words of] encouragement [to uphold and advise them concerning the matters of God] and [speaks words of] consolation [to compassionately comfort them]. 















###### 4 







One who speaks in a tongue edifies himself; but one who prophesies edifies the church [promotes growth in spiritual wisdom, devotion, holiness, and joy]. 















###### 5 







Now I wish that all of you spoke in _unknown_ tongues, but _even_ more [I wish] that you would prophesy. The one who prophesies is greater [and more useful] than the one who speaks in tongues, unless he translates _or_ explains [what he says], so that the church may [^b]be edified [instructed, improved, strengthened]. 















###### 6 







Now, believers, if I come to you speaking in _unknown_ tongues, how will I benefit you unless I also speak to you [clearly] either by revelation [revealing God's mystery], or by knowledge [teaching about God], or by prophecy [foretelling the future, speaking a new message from God to the people], or by instruction [teaching precepts that develop spiritual maturity]? 















###### 7 







Yet _even_ lifeless things, whether flute or harp, when producing a sound, if they do not produce distinct [musical] tones, how will anyone [listening] know what is piped or played? 















###### 8 







And if the [war] bugle produces an indistinct sound, who will prepare himself for battle? 















###### 9 







So it is with you, if you speak words [in an unknown tongue] that are not intelligible _and_ clear, how will anyone understand what you are saying? You will be talking into the air [wasting your breath]! 















###### 10 







There are, I suppose, a great many kinds of languages in the world [unknown to us], and none is lacking in meaning. 















###### 11 







But if I do not know the meaning of the language, I will [appear to] be a [^c]foreigner to the one who is speaking [since he knows exactly what he is saying], and the one who is speaking will [appear to] be a foreigner to me. 















###### 12 







So it is with you, since you are so very eager to have spiritual gifts _and_ manifestations of the Spirit, strive to excel in ways that will build up the church [spiritually]. 















###### 13 







Therefore let one who speaks in a tongue pray that he may [be gifted to] translate _or_ explain [what he says]. 















###### 14 







For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my mind is unproductive [because it does not understand what my spirit is praying]. 















###### 15 







Then what am I to do? I will pray with the [^d]spirit [by the Holy Spirit that is within me] and I will pray with the mind [using words I understand]; I will sing with the spirit [by the Holy Spirit that is within me] and I will sing with the mind [using words I understand]. 















###### 16 







Otherwise if you bless [and give thanks to God] in the spirit only, how will any outsider _or_ someone who is not gifted [in spiritual matters] say the "Amen" [of agreement] to your thanksgiving, since he does not know what you are saying? 















###### 17 







You are giving thanks well enough [in a way that God is glorified], but the other person [who does not understand you] is not edified [and spiritually strengthened since he cannot join in your thanksgiving]. 















###### 18 







I thank God that I speak in [unknown] tongues more than all of you; 















###### 19 







nevertheless, in public worship I would rather say five _understandable_ words in order to instruct others, than ten thousand words in a tongue [which others cannot understand]. ## Instruction for the Church 















###### 20 







Brothers and sisters, do not be children [immature, childlike] in your thinking; be infants in [matters of] evil [completely innocent and inexperienced], but in your minds be mature [adults]. 















###### 21 







It is written in the Law, "By men of strange tongues and by the lips of foreigners I will speak to this people, and not even then will they listen to Me," says the Lord. 















###### 22 







Therefore, [unknown] tongues are [meant] for a [supernatural] sign, not to believers but to unbelievers [who might be receptive]; while prophecy [foretelling the future, speaking a new message from God to the people] is not for unbelievers but for believers. 















###### 23 







So then, if the whole church gathers together and all of you speak in [unknown] tongues, and outsiders _or_ those who are not gifted [in spiritual matters] or unbelievers come in, will they not say that you are out of your mind? 















###### 24 







But if all prophesy [foretelling the future, speaking a new message from God to the people], and an unbeliever or outsider comes in, he is convicted [of his sins] by all, and he is called to account by all [because he can understand what is being said]; 















###### 25 







the secrets of his heart are laid bare. And so, falling on his face, he will worship God, declaring that God is really among you. 















###### 26 







What then is _the right course_, believers? When you meet together, each one has a psalm, a teaching, a revelation (disclosure of special knowledge), a tongue, _or_ an interpretation. Let everything be constructive _and_ edifying _and_ done for the good of all the church. 















###### 27 







If anyone speaks in a tongue, _it should be limited_ to two or at the most three, and _each one speaking_ in turn, and one must interpret [what is said]. 















###### 28 







But if there is no one to interpret, the one [who wishes to speak in a tongue] must keep silent in church; let him speak to himself and to God. 















###### 29 







Let two or three prophets speak [as inspired by the Holy Spirit], while the rest pay attention _and_ weigh carefully what is said. 















###### 30 







But if an inspired revelation is made to another who is seated, then the first one must be silent. 















###### 31 







For [in this way] you can all prophesy one by one, so that everyone may be instructed and everyone may be encouraged; 















###### 32 







for the spirits of prophets are subject to the prophets [the prophecy is under the speaker's control, and he can stop speaking]; 















###### 33 







for God [who is the source of their prophesying] is not _a God_ of confusion _and_ disorder but of peace _and_ order. As [is the practice] in all the churches of the saints (God's people), 















###### 34 







the [^e]women should be silent in the churches, for they are not authorized to speak, but are to take a subordinate place, as the Law says. 















###### 35 







If there is anything they want to learn [that is, if they have questions about anything being said or taught], they are to ask their own husbands at home; for it is improper for a [^f]woman to talk in church. 















###### 36 







Did the word of the Lord originate from you [Corinthians], or has it come to you only [so that you know best what God requires]? 















###### 37 







If anyone thinks _and_ claims that he is a prophet [a true spokesman for God] or spiritually astute [filled with and energized by the Holy Spirit], let him recognize that the things which I write to you are the Lord's commandment. 















###### 38 







If anyone does not recognize this [that it is a command of the Lord], he is not recognized [by God]. 















###### 39 







Therefore, believers, desire earnestly to prophesy [to foretell the future, to speak a new message from God to the people], and do not forbid speaking in _unknown_ tongues. 















###### 40 







But all things must be done appropriately and in an orderly manner. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Corinthians 14:1 In both the Old and the New Testaments, prophets are divinely inspired to foretell the future in the process of delivering God’s word to the people. Paul is saying to the Corinthians that all gifts are worthy and necessary (cf 12:11, 18, 29, 30), but that they should give the gift of prophecy the highest priority (cf Deut 18). [^b]: 1 Corinthians 14:5 Lit _receive edification_. [^c]: 1 Corinthians 14:11 Lit _barbarian_, i.e. one who did not speak Greek; especially a person from an uncivilized region whose speech could not be readily translated. [^d]: 1 Corinthians 14:15 May refer to Paul’s spirit, the Holy Spirit, or the gifts of the Holy Spirit. [^e]: 1 Corinthians 14:34 When used elsewhere in the New Testament, in specific reference to a woman (cf Eph 5:22; Col 3:18; Titus 2:4, 5; 1 Peter 3:1, 5), this word refers to a married woman, so these admonitions (vv 34, 35) may be directed primarily to the wives of believing husbands. [^f]: 1 Corinthians 14:35 Paul does not comment on unmarried women; they probably have to abide by the prohibition against speaking out in church as well, and ask questions outside the service.
