---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 11]
previous: ['1 Cor 10']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 12']
---
# 1 Corinthians 11

***
















###### 1 







Imitate me, just as I _imitate_ Christ. 















###### 2 







I praise _and_ appreciate you because you remember me in everything and you firmly hold to the [^a]traditions [the substance of my instructions], just as I have passed them on to you. 















###### 3 







But I want you to understand that Christ is the head (authority over) of every man, and man is the head of woman, and God is the head of Christ. 















###### 4 







Every man who prays or [^b]prophesies with _something_ on his head dishonors his head [and the One who is his head]. 















###### 5 







And every woman who prays or prophesies when she has her [^c]head uncovered disgraces her head; for she is one and the same as the [^d]woman whose head is shaved [in disgrace]. 















###### 6 







If a woman does not cover her head, she should have her hair cut off; and [^e]if it is disgraceful for a woman to have her hair cut off or her head shaved, she should cover her head. 















###### 7 







A man ought not have his head covered [during worship], since he is the image and [reflected] glory of God; but the woman is [the expression of] man's glory. 















###### 8 







For man does not originate from woman, but woman from man; 















###### 9 







for indeed man was not created for the sake of woman, but woman for the sake of man. 















###### 10 







Therefore the woman ought to have a _sign of_ authority on her head, [^f]for the sake of the angels [so as not to offend them]. 















###### 11 







Nevertheless, woman is not independent of man, nor is man independent of woman. 















###### 12 







For as the woman originates from the man, so also man is born through the woman; and all things [whether male or female] originate from God [as their Creator]. 















###### 13 







[^g]Judge for yourselves; is it proper for a woman to offer prayer to God [publicly] with her head uncovered? 















###### 14 







Does not common sense itself teach you that if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him, 















###### 15 







but if a woman has long hair, it is her ornament _and_ glory? For her long hair is given to her as a covering. 















###### 16 







Now if anyone is inclined to be contentious [about this], we have no other practice [in worship than this], nor do the churches of God [in general]. 















###### 17 







But in giving this next instruction, I do not praise you, because when you meet together it is not for the better but for the worse. 















###### 18 







For, in the first place, when you meet together in church, I hear that there are divisions among you; and in part I believe it, 















###### 19 







for [doubtless] there have to be factions among you, so that those who are of approved character may be clearly recognized among you. 















###### 20 







So when you meet together, it is not to eat the [^h]Lord's Supper, 















###### 21 







for when you eat, each one hurries to get his own supper first [not waiting for others or the poor]. So one goes hungry while another gets drunk. 















###### 22 







What! Do you not have houses in which to eat and drink? Or do you show contempt for the church of God and humiliate those [impoverished believers] who have nothing? What will I say to you? Shall I praise you for this? In this I will not praise you! ## The Lord's Supper 















###### 23 







[^i]For I received from the Lord Himself that [instruction] which I passed on to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night in which He was betrayed took bread; 















###### 24 







and when He had given thanks, He broke it and said, "This is (represents) My body, which is [offered as a sacrifice] for you. Do this in [affectionate] remembrance of Me." 















###### 25 







In the same way, after supper _He took_ the cup, saying, "This cup is the new covenant [ratified and established] in My blood; do this, as often as you drink it, in [affectionate] remembrance of Me." 















###### 26 







For every time you eat this bread and drink this cup, you are [symbolically] proclaiming [the fact of] the Lord's death until He comes [again]. 















###### 27 







So then whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in a way that is unworthy [of Him] will be guilty of [profaning and sinning against] the body and blood of the Lord. 















###### 28 







But a person must [prayerfully] examine himself [and his relationship to Christ], and only when he has done so should he eat of the bread and drink of the cup. 















###### 29 







For anyone who eats and drinks [without solemn reverence and heartfelt gratitude for the sacrifice of Christ], eats and drinks a judgment on himself if he does not [^j]recognize the body [of Christ]. 















###### 30 







That [careless and unworthy participation] is the reason why many among you are weak and sick, and a number sleep [in death]. 















###### 31 







But if we evaluated _and_ judged ourselves honestly [recognizing our shortcomings and correcting our behavior], we would not be judged. 















###### 32 







But when we [fall short and] are judged by the Lord, we are disciplined [by undergoing His correction] so that we will not be condemned [to eternal punishment] along with the world. 















###### 33 







So then, my brothers and sisters, when you come together to eat [the Lord's Supper], wait for one another [and see to it that no one is left out]. 















###### 34 







If anyone is too hungry [to wait], let him eat at home, so that you will not come together for judgment [on yourselves]. About the remaining matters [of which I was informed], I will take care of them when I come. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Corinthians 11:2 The following discourse covers appropriate conduct and relationships within the church, as well as within church-related activities. [^b]: 1 Corinthians 11:4 The references to men or women prophesying (here and v 5) indicate that Paul has church meetings in mind, where the speaker is leading the congregation in prayer or addressing them. [^c]: 1 Corinthians 11:5 In public, respectable women wore their hair done up in a modest style. In the Greco-Roman-Jewish culture of the time, hair worn down and loose would suggest a woman of questionable morals. [^d]: 1 Corinthians 11:5 Possibly the mark of an adulteress or prostitute, but likely a sign of disgrace for any number of reasons. In one of Aristophanes’ comedies, for example, head shaving is recommended for a woman whose son is cowardly or otherwise worthless. [^e]: 1 Corinthians 11:6 There is little doubt that this would appear disgraceful and embarrassing, but Paul is essentially providing his readers a simple way to determine for themselves if a woman should _cover her head_ while prophesying or leading prayer in church. [^f]: 1 Corinthians 11:10 This may be an indication that angels are present at gatherings of believers. [^g]: 1 Corinthians 11:13 This verse acknowledges custom as another, separate argument for a woman’s head covering (v 5). [^h]: 1 Corinthians 11:20 When Christ instituted the Lord’s Supper (or the Lord’s Table), it was the Passover meal with the special rituals and explanations that He introduced (Matt 26:26 ff; Luke 22:15 ff). The description given here indicates that the early church celebrated the Lord’s Supper in similar fashion by having a full meal (the so-called _agape_ “love” feast) that included the special rites with the bread and wine (see v 21). [^i]: 1 Corinthians 11:23 Many scholars believe this may be the first written description of the Lord’s Supper since this letter from Paul is dated earlier than any of the Gospels. [^j]: 1 Corinthians 11:29 I.e. respect Christ’s sacrifice and his fellow believers for whom Christ also died.
