---
Aliases: [Psalms 148]
previous: ['Ps 147']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 149']
---
# Psalms 148

***


















###### 1 








Praise ye the LORD. Praise ye the LORD from the heavens: praise him in the heights. 

















###### 2 








Praise ye him, all his angels: praise ye him, all his hosts. 

















###### 3 








Praise ye him, sun and moon: praise him, all ye stars of light. 

















###### 4 








Praise him, ye heavens of heavens, and ye waters that be above the heavens. 

















###### 5 








Let them praise the name of the LORD: for he commanded, and they were created. 

















###### 6 








He hath also stablished them for ever and ever: he hath made a decree which shall not pass. 

















###### 7 








Praise the LORD from the earth, ye dragons, and all deeps: 

















###### 8 








Fire, and hail; snow, and vapours; stormy wind fulfilling his word: 

















###### 9 








Mountains, and all hills; fruitful trees, and all cedars: 

















###### 10 








Beasts, and all cattle; creeping things, and flying fowl: 

















###### 11 








Kings of the earth, and all people; princes, and all judges of the earth: 

















###### 12 








Both young men, and maidens; old men, and children: 

















###### 13 








Let them praise the name of the LORD: for his name alone is excellent; his glory is above the earth and heaven. 

















###### 14 








He also exalteth the horn of his people, the praise of all his saints; even of the children of Israel, a people near unto him. Praise ye the LORD. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
