---
Aliases: [Psalms 146]
previous: ['Ps 145']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 147']
---
# Psalms 146

***


















###### 1 








Praise ye the LORD. Praise the LORD, O my soul. 

















###### 2 








While I live will I praise the LORD: I will sing praises unto my God while I have any being. 

















###### 3 








Put not your trust in princes, nor in the son of man, in whom there is no help. 

















###### 4 








His breath goeth forth, he returneth to his earth; in that very day his thoughts perish. 

















###### 5 








Happy is he that hath the God of Jacob for his help, whose hope is in the LORD his God: 

















###### 6 








Which made heaven, and earth, the sea, and all that therein is: which keepeth truth for ever: 

















###### 7 








Which executeth judgment for the oppressed: which giveth food to the hungry. The LORD looseth the prisoners: 

















###### 8 








The LORD openeth the eyes of the blind: the LORD raiseth them that are bowed down: the LORD loveth the righteous: 

















###### 9 








The LORD preserveth the strangers; he relieveth the fatherless and widow: but the way of the wicked he turneth upside down. 

















###### 10 








The LORD shall reign for ever, even thy God, O Zion, unto all generations. Praise ye the LORD. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
