---
Aliases: [Psalms 19]
previous: ['Ps 18']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 20']
---
# Psalms 19

***


















###### 1 








The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handywork. 

















###### 2 








Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth knowledge. 

















###### 3 








There is no speech nor language, where their voice is not heard. 

















###### 4 








Their line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle for the sun, 

















###### 5 








Which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, and rejoiceth as a strong man to run a race. 

















###### 6 








His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and his circuit unto the ends of it: and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof. 

















###### 7 








The law of the LORD is perfect, converting the soul: the testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple. 

















###### 8 








The statutes of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart: the commandment of the LORD is pure, enlightening the eyes. 

















###### 9 








The fear of the LORD is clean, enduring for ever: the judgments of the LORD are true and righteous altogether. 

















###### 10 








More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold: sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. 

















###### 11 








Moreover by them is thy servant warned: and in keeping of them there is great reward. 

















###### 12 








Who can understand his errors? cleanse thou me from secret faults. 

















###### 13 








Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not have dominion over me: then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent from the great transgression. 

















###### 14 








Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be acceptable in thy sight, O LORD, my strength, and my redeemer. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
