---
Aliases: [Psalms 140]
previous: ['Ps 139']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 141']
---
# Psalms 140

***


















###### 1 








Deliver me, O LORD, from the evil man: preserve me from the violent man; 

















###### 2 








Which imagine mischiefs in their heart; continually are they gathered together for war. 

















###### 3 








They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent; adders' poison is under their lips. Selah. 

















###### 4 








Keep me, O LORD, from the hands of the wicked; preserve me from the violent man; who have purposed to overthrow my goings. 

















###### 5 








The proud have hid a snare for me, and cords; they have spread a net by the wayside; they have set gins for me. Selah. 

















###### 6 








I said unto the LORD, Thou art my God: hear the voice of my supplications, O LORD. 

















###### 7 








O God the Lord, the strength of my salvation, thou hast covered my head in the day of battle. 

















###### 8 








Grant not, O LORD, the desires of the wicked: further not his wicked device; lest they exalt themselves. Selah. 

















###### 9 








As for the head of those that compass me about, let the mischief of their own lips cover them. 

















###### 10 








Let burning coals fall upon them: let them be cast into the fire; into deep pits, that they rise not up again. 

















###### 11 








Let not an evil speaker be established in the earth: evil shall hunt the violent man to overthrow him. 

















###### 12 








I know that the LORD will maintain the cause of the afflicted, and the right of the poor. 

















###### 13 








Surely the righteous shall give thanks unto thy name: the upright shall dwell in thy presence. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
