---
Aliases: [Psalms 111]
previous: ['Ps 110']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 112']
---
# Psalms 111

***


















###### 1 








Praise ye the LORD. I will praise the LORD with my whole heart, in the assembly of the upright, and in the congregation. 

















###### 2 








The works of the LORD are great, sought out of all them that have pleasure therein. 

















###### 3 








His work is honourable and glorious: and his righteousness endureth for ever. 

















###### 4 








He hath made his wonderful works to be remembered: the LORD is gracious and full of compassion. 

















###### 5 








He hath given meat unto them that fear him: he will ever be mindful of his covenant. 

















###### 6 








He hath shewed his people the power of his works, that he may give them the heritage of the heathen. 

















###### 7 








The works of his hands are verity and judgment; all his commandments are sure. 

















###### 8 








They stand fast for ever and ever, and are done in truth and uprightness. 

















###### 9 








He sent redemption unto his people: he hath commanded his covenant for ever: holy and reverend is his name. 

















###### 10 








The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom: a good understanding have all they that do his commandments: his praise endureth for ever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
