---
Aliases: [Psalms 116]
previous: ['Ps 115']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 117']
---
# Psalms 116

***


















###### 1 








I love the LORD, because he hath heard my voice and my supplications. 

















###### 2 








Because he hath inclined his ear unto me, therefore will I call upon him as long as I live. 

















###### 3 








The sorrows of death compassed me, and the pains of hell gat hold upon me: I found trouble and sorrow. 

















###### 4 








Then called I upon the name of the LORD; O LORD, I beseech thee, deliver my soul. 

















###### 5 








Gracious is the LORD, and righteous; yea, our God is merciful. 

















###### 6 








The LORD preserveth the simple: I was brought low, and he helped me. 

















###### 7 








Return unto thy rest, O my soul; for the LORD hath dealt bountifully with thee. 

















###### 8 








For thou hast delivered my soul from death, mine eyes from tears, and my feet from falling. 

















###### 9 








I will walk before the LORD in the land of the living. 

















###### 10 








I believed, therefore have I spoken: I was greatly afflicted: 

















###### 11 








I said in my haste, All men are liars. 

















###### 12 








What shall I render unto the LORD for all his benefits toward me? 

















###### 13 








I will take the cup of salvation, and call upon the name of the LORD. 

















###### 14 








I will pay my vows unto the LORD now in the presence of all his people. 

















###### 15 








Precious in the sight of the LORD is the death of his saints. 

















###### 16 








O LORD, truly I am thy servant; I am thy servant, and the son of thine handmaid: thou hast loosed my bonds. 

















###### 17 








I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and will call upon the name of the LORD. 

















###### 18 








I will pay my vows unto the LORD now in the presence of all his people. 

















###### 19 








In the courts of the LORD's house, in the midst of thee, O Jerusalem. Praise ye the LORD. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
