---
Aliases: [Psalms 112]
previous: ['Ps 111']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 113']
---
# Psalms 112

***


















###### 1 








Praise ye the LORD. Blessed is the man that feareth the LORD, that delighteth greatly in his commandments. 

















###### 2 








His seed shall be mighty upon earth: the generation of the upright shall be blessed. 

















###### 3 








Wealth and riches shall be in his house: and his righteousness endureth for ever. 

















###### 4 








Unto the upright there ariseth light in the darkness: he is gracious, and full of compassion, and righteous. 

















###### 5 








A good man sheweth favour, and lendeth: he will guide his affairs with discretion. 

















###### 6 








Surely he shall not be moved for ever: the righteous shall be in everlasting remembrance. 

















###### 7 








He shall not be afraid of evil tidings: his heart is fixed, trusting in the LORD. 

















###### 8 








His heart is established, he shall not be afraid, until he see his desire upon his enemies. 

















###### 9 








He hath dispersed, he hath given to the poor; his righteousness endureth for ever; his horn shall be exalted with honour. 

















###### 10 








The wicked shall see it, and be grieved; he shall gnash with his teeth, and melt away: the desire of the wicked shall perish. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
