---
Aliases: [Psalms 149]
previous: ['Ps 148']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 150']
---
# Psalms 149

***


















###### 1 








Praise ye the LORD. Sing unto the LORD a new song, and his praise in the congregation of saints. 

















###### 2 








Let Israel rejoice in him that made him: let the children of Zion be joyful in their King. 

















###### 3 








Let them praise his name in the dance: let them sing praises unto him with the timbrel and harp. 

















###### 4 








For the LORD taketh pleasure in his people: he will beautify the meek with salvation. 

















###### 5 








Let the saints be joyful in glory: let them sing aloud upon their beds. 

















###### 6 








Let the high praises of God be in their mouth, and a two-edged sword in their hand; 

















###### 7 








To execute vengeance upon the heathen, and punishments upon the people; 

















###### 8 








To bind their kings with chains, and their nobles with fetters of iron; 

















###### 9 








To execute upon them the judgment written: this honour have all his saints. Praise ye the LORD. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
