---
Aliases: [Psalms 12]
previous: ['Ps 11']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 13']
---
# Psalms 12

***


















###### 1 








Help, LORD; for the godly man ceaseth; for the faithful fail from among the children of men. 

















###### 2 








They speak vanity every one with his neighbour: with flattering lips and with a double heart do they speak. 

















###### 3 








The LORD shall cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue that speaketh proud things: 

















###### 4 








Who have said, With our tongue will we prevail; our lips are our own: who is lord over us? 

















###### 5 








For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now will I arise, saith the LORD; I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him. 

















###### 6 








The words of the LORD are pure words: as silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times. 

















###### 7 








Thou shalt keep them, O LORD, thou shalt preserve them from this generation for ever. 

















###### 8 








The wicked walk on every side, when the vilest men are exalted. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
