---
Aliases: [Psalms 14]
previous: ['Ps 13']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 15']
---
# Psalms 14

***


















###### 1 








The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt, they have done abominable works, there is none that doeth good. 

















###### 2 








The LORD looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if there were any that did understand, and seek God. 

















###### 3 








They are all gone aside, they are all together become filthy: there is none that doeth good, no, not one. 

















###### 4 








Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat up my people as they eat bread, and call not upon the LORD. 

















###### 5 








There were they in great fear: for God is in the generation of the righteous. 

















###### 6 








Ye have shamed the counsel of the poor, because the LORD is his refuge. 

















###### 7 








Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! when the LORD bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
