---
Aliases: [Psalms 137]
previous: ['Ps 136']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 138']
---
# Psalms 137

***


















###### 1 








By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down, yea, we wept, when we remembered Zion. 

















###### 2 








We hanged our harps upon the willows in the midst thereof. 

















###### 3 








For there they that carried us away captive required of us a song; and they that wasted us required of us mirth, saying, Sing us one of the songs of Zion. 

















###### 4 








How shall we sing the LORD's song in a strange land? 

















###### 5 








If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her cunning. 

















###### 6 








If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth; if I prefer not Jerusalem above my chief joy. 

















###### 7 








Remember, O LORD, the children of Edom in the day of Jerusalem; who said, Rase it, rase it, even to the foundation thereof. 

















###### 8 








O daughter of Babylon, who art to be destroyed; happy shall he be, that rewardeth thee as thou hast served us. 

















###### 9 








Happy shall he be, that taketh and dasheth thy little ones against the stones. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
