---
Aliases: [Psalms 108]
previous: ['Ps 107']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 109']
---
# Psalms 108

***


















###### 1 








O God, my heart is fixed; I will sing and give praise, even with my glory. 

















###### 2 








Awake, psaltery and harp: I myself will awake early. 

















###### 3 








I will praise thee, O LORD, among the people: and I will sing praises unto thee among the nations. 

















###### 4 








For thy mercy is great above the heavens: and thy truth reacheth unto the clouds. 

















###### 5 








Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: and thy glory above all the earth; 

















###### 6 








That thy beloved may be delivered: save with thy right hand, and answer me. 

















###### 7 








God hath spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth. 

















###### 8 








Gilead is mine; Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the strength of mine head; Judah is my lawgiver; 

















###### 9 








Moab is my washpot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe; over Philistia will I triumph. 

















###### 10 








Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into Edom? 

















###### 11 








Wilt not thou, O God, who hast cast us off? and wilt not thou, O God, go forth with our hosts? 

















###### 12 








Give us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man. 

















###### 13 








Through God we shall do valiantly: for he it is that shall tread down our enemies. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
