---
Aliases: [Psalms 24]
previous: ['Ps 23']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 25']
---
# Psalms 24

***


















###### 1 








The earth is the LORD's, and the fulness thereof; the world, and they that dwell therein. 

















###### 2 








For he hath founded it upon the seas, and established it upon the floods. 

















###### 3 








Who shall ascend into the hill of the LORD? or who shall stand in his holy place? 

















###### 4 








He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart; who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully. 

















###### 5 








He shall receive the blessing from the LORD, and righteousness from the God of his salvation. 

















###### 6 








This is the generation of them that seek him, that seek thy face, O Jacob. Selah. 

















###### 7 








Lift up your heads, O ye gates; and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in. 

















###### 8 








Who is this King of glory? The LORD strong and mighty, the LORD mighty in battle. 

















###### 9 








Lift up your heads, O ye gates; even lift them up, ye everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in. 

















###### 10 








Who is this King of glory? The LORD of hosts, he is the King of glory. Selah. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
