---
Aliases: [Psalms 26]
previous: ['Ps 25']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 27']
---
# Psalms 26

***


















###### 1 








Judge me, O LORD; for I have walked in mine integrity: I have trusted also in the LORD; therefore I shall not slide. 

















###### 2 








Examine me, O LORD, and prove me; try my reins and my heart. 

















###### 3 








For thy lovingkindness is before mine eyes: and I have walked in thy truth. 

















###### 4 








I have not sat with vain persons, neither will I go in with dissemblers. 

















###### 5 








I have hated the congregation of evil doers; and will not sit with the wicked. 

















###### 6 








I will wash mine hands in innocency: so will I compass thine altar, O LORD: 

















###### 7 








That I may publish with the voice of thanksgiving, and tell of all thy wondrous works. 

















###### 8 








LORD, I have loved the habitation of thy house, and the place where thine honour dwelleth. 

















###### 9 








Gather not my soul with sinners, nor my life with bloody men: 

















###### 10 








In whose hands is mischief, and their right hand is full of bribes. 

















###### 11 








But as for me, I will walk in mine integrity: redeem me, and be merciful unto me. 

















###### 12 








My foot standeth in an even place: in the congregations will I bless the LORD. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
