---
Aliases: [Psalms 29]
previous: ['Ps 28']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 30']
---
# Psalms 29

***


















###### 1 








Give unto the LORD, O ye mighty, give unto the LORD glory and strength. 

















###### 2 








Give unto the LORD the glory due unto his name; worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness. 

















###### 3 








The voice of the LORD is upon the waters: the God of glory thundereth: the LORD is upon many waters. 

















###### 4 








The voice of the LORD is powerful; the voice of the LORD is full of majesty. 

















###### 5 








The voice of the LORD breaketh the cedars; yea, the LORD breaketh the cedars of Lebanon. 

















###### 6 








He maketh them also to skip like a calf; Lebanon and Sirion like a young unicorn. 

















###### 7 








The voice of the LORD divideth the flames of fire. 

















###### 8 








The voice of the LORD shaketh the wilderness; the LORD shaketh the wilderness of Kadesh. 

















###### 9 








The voice of the LORD maketh the hinds to calve, and discovereth the forests: and in his temple doth every one speak of his glory. 

















###### 10 








The LORD sitteth upon the flood; yea, the LORD sitteth King for ever. 

















###### 11 








The LORD will give strength unto his people; the LORD will bless his people with peace. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
