---
Aliases: [Psalms 39]
previous: ['Ps 38']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 40']
---
# Psalms 39

***


















###### 1 








I said, I will take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my tongue: I will keep my mouth with a bridle, while the wicked is before me. 

















###### 2 








I was dumb with silence, I held my peace, even from good; and my sorrow was stirred. 

















###### 3 








My heart was hot within me, while I was musing the fire burned: then spake I with my tongue, 

















###### 4 








LORD, make me to know mine end, and the measure of my days, what it is: that I may know how frail I am. 

















###### 5 








Behold, thou hast made my days as an handbreadth; and mine age is as nothing before thee: verily every man at his best state is altogether vanity. Selah. 

















###### 6 








Surely every man walketh in a vain shew: surely they are disquieted in vain: he heapeth up riches, and knoweth not who shall gather them. 

















###### 7 








And now, Lord, what wait I for? my hope is in thee. 

















###### 8 








Deliver me from all my transgressions: make me not the reproach of the foolish. 

















###### 9 








I was dumb, I opened not my mouth; because thou didst it. 

















###### 10 








Remove thy stroke away from me: I am consumed by the blow of thine hand. 

















###### 11 








When thou with rebukes dost correct man for iniquity, thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth: surely every man is vanity. Selah. 

















###### 12 








Hear my prayer, O LORD, and give ear unto my cry; hold not thy peace at my tears: for I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner, as all my fathers were. 

















###### 13 








O spare me, that I may recover strength, before I go hence, and be no more. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
