---
Aliases: [Psalms 30]
previous: ['Ps 29']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 31']
---
# Psalms 30

***


















###### 1 








I will extol thee, O LORD; for thou hast lifted me up, and hast not made my foes to rejoice over me. 

















###### 2 








O LORD my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me. 

















###### 3 








O LORD, thou hast brought up my soul from the grave: thou hast kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit. 

















###### 4 








Sing unto the LORD, O ye saints of his, and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. 

















###### 5 








For his anger endureth but a moment; in his favour is life: weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning. 

















###### 6 








And in my prosperity I said, I shall never be moved. 

















###### 7 








LORD, by thy favour thou hast made my mountain to stand strong: thou didst hide thy face, and I was troubled. 

















###### 8 








I cried to thee, O LORD; and unto the LORD I made supplication. 

















###### 9 








What profit is there in my blood, when I go down to the pit? Shall the dust praise thee? shall it declare thy truth? 

















###### 10 








Hear, O LORD, and have mercy upon me: LORD, be thou my helper. 

















###### 11 








Thou hast turned for me my mourning into dancing: thou hast put off my sackcloth, and girded me with gladness; 

















###### 12 








To the end that my glory may sing praise to thee, and not be silent. O LORD my God, I will give thanks unto thee for ever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
