---
Aliases: [Psalms 42]
previous: ['Ps 41']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 43']
---
# Psalms 42

***


















###### 1 








As the hart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. 

















###### 2 








My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God: when shall I come and appear before God? 

















###### 3 








My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? 

















###### 4 








When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me: for I had gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God, with the voice of joy and praise, with a multitude that kept holyday. 

















###### 5 








Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted in me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance. 

















###### 6 








O my God, my soul is cast down within me: therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan, and of the Hermonites, from the hill Mizar. 

















###### 7 








Deep calleth unto deep at the noise of thy waterspouts: all thy waves and thy billows are gone over me. 

















###### 8 








Yet the LORD will command his lovingkindness in the day time, and in the night his song shall be with me, and my prayer unto the God of my life. 

















###### 9 








I will say unto God my rock, Why hast thou forgotten me? why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? 

















###### 10 








As with a sword in my bones, mine enemies reproach me; while they say daily unto me, Where is thy God? 

















###### 11 








Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted within me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance, and my God. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
