---
Aliases: [Psalms 59]
previous: ['Ps 58']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 60']
---
# Psalms 59

***


















###### 1 








Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God: defend me from them that rise up against me. 

















###### 2 








Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, and save me from bloody men. 

















###### 3 








For, lo, they lie in wait for my soul: the mighty are gathered against me; not for my transgression, nor for my sin, O LORD. 

















###### 4 








They run and prepare themselves without my fault: awake to help me, and behold. 

















###### 5 








Thou therefore, O LORD God of hosts, the God of Israel, awake to visit all the heathen: be not merciful to any wicked transgressors. Selah. 

















###### 6 








They return at evening: they make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city. 

















###### 7 








Behold, they belch out with their mouth: swords are in their lips: for who, say they, doth hear? 

















###### 8 








But thou, O LORD, shalt laugh at them; thou shalt have all the heathen in derision. 

















###### 9 








Because of his strength will I wait upon thee: for God is my defence. 

















###### 10 








The God of my mercy shall prevent me: God shall let me see my desire upon mine enemies. 

















###### 11 








Slay them not, lest my people forget: scatter them by thy power; and bring them down, O Lord our shield. 

















###### 12 








For the sin of their mouth and the words of their lips let them even be taken in their pride: and for cursing and lying which they speak. 

















###### 13 








Consume them in wrath, consume them, that they may not be: and let them know that God ruleth in Jacob unto the ends of the earth. Selah. 

















###### 14 








And at evening let them return; and let them make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city. 

















###### 15 








Let them wander up and down for meat, and grudge if they be not satisfied. 

















###### 16 








But I will sing of thy power; yea, I will sing aloud of thy mercy in the morning: for thou hast been my defence and refuge in the day of my trouble. 

















###### 17 








Unto thee, O my strength, will I sing: for God is my defence, and the God of my mercy. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
