---
Aliases: [Psalms 53]
previous: ['Ps 52']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 54']
---
# Psalms 53

***


















###### 1 








The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. Corrupt are they, and have done abominable iniquity: there is none that doeth good. 

















###### 2 








God looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if there were any that did understand, that did seek God. 

















###### 3 








Every one of them is gone back: they are altogether become filthy; there is none that doeth good, no, not one. 

















###### 4 








Have the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat up my people as they eat bread: they have not called upon God. 

















###### 5 








There were they in great fear, where no fear was: for God hath scattered the bones of him that encampeth against thee: thou hast put them to shame, because God hath despised them. 

















###### 6 








Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! When God bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
