---
Aliases: [Psalms 65]
previous: ['Ps 64']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 66']
---
# Psalms 65

***


















###### 1 








Praise waiteth for thee, O God, in Sion: and unto thee shall the vow be performed. 

















###### 2 








O thou that hearest prayer, unto thee shall all flesh come. 

















###### 3 








Iniquities prevail against me: as for our transgressions, thou shalt purge them away. 

















###### 4 








Blessed is the man whom thou choosest, and causest to approach unto thee, that he may dwell in thy courts: we shall be satisfied with the goodness of thy house, even of thy holy temple. 

















###### 5 








By terrible things in righteousness wilt thou answer us, O God of our salvation; who art the confidence of all the ends of the earth, and of them that are afar off upon the sea: 

















###### 6 








Which by his strength setteth fast the mountains; being girded with power: 

















###### 7 








Which stilleth the noise of the seas, the noise of their waves, and the tumult of the people. 

















###### 8 








They also that dwell in the uttermost parts are afraid at thy tokens: thou makest the outgoings of the morning and evening to rejoice. 

















###### 9 








Thou visitest the earth, and waterest it: thou greatly enrichest it with the river of God, which is full of water: thou preparest them corn, when thou hast so provided for it. 

















###### 10 








Thou waterest the ridges thereof abundantly: thou settlest the furrows thereof: thou makest it soft with showers: thou blessest the springing thereof. 

















###### 11 








Thou crownest the year with thy goodness; and thy paths drop fatness. 

















###### 12 








They drop upon the pastures of the wilderness: and the little hills rejoice on every side. 

















###### 13 








The pastures are clothed with flocks; the valleys also are covered over with corn; they shout for joy, they also sing. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
