---
Aliases: [Psalms 60]
previous: ['Ps 59']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 61']
---
# Psalms 60

***


















###### 1 








O God, thou hast cast us off, thou hast scattered us, thou hast been displeased; O turn thyself to us again. 

















###### 2 








Thou hast made the earth to tremble; thou hast broken it: heal the breaches thereof; for it shaketh. 

















###### 3 








Thou hast shewed thy people hard things: thou hast made us to drink the wine of astonishment. 

















###### 4 








Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee, that it may be displayed because of the truth. Selah. 

















###### 5 








That thy beloved may be delivered; save with thy right hand, and hear me. 

















###### 6 








God hath spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth. 

















###### 7 








Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the strength of mine head; Judah is my lawgiver; 

















###### 8 








Moab is my washpot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe: Philistia, triumph thou because of me. 

















###### 9 








Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into Edom? 

















###### 10 








Wilt not thou, O God, which hadst cast us off? and thou, O God, which didst not go out with our armies? 

















###### 11 








Give us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man. 

















###### 12 








Through God we shall do valiantly: for he it is that shall tread down our enemies. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
