---
Aliases: [Psalms 64]
previous: ['Ps 63']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 65']
---
# Psalms 64

***


















###### 1 








Hear my voice, O God, in my prayer: preserve my life from fear of the enemy. 

















###### 2 








Hide me from the secret counsel of the wicked; from the insurrection of the workers of iniquity: 

















###### 3 








Who whet their tongue like a sword, and bend their bows to shoot their arrows, even bitter words: 

















###### 4 








That they may shoot in secret at the perfect: suddenly do they shoot at him, and fear not. 

















###### 5 








They encourage themselves in an evil matter: they commune of laying snares privily; they say, Who shall see them? 

















###### 6 








They search out iniquities; they accomplish a diligent search: both the inward thought of every one of them, and the heart, is deep. 

















###### 7 








But God shall shoot at them with an arrow; suddenly shall they be wounded. 

















###### 8 








So they shall make their own tongue to fall upon themselves: all that see them shall flee away. 

















###### 9 








And all men shall fear, and shall declare the work of God; for they shall wisely consider of his doing. 

















###### 10 








The righteous shall be glad in the LORD, and shall trust in him; and all the upright in heart shall glory. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
