---
Aliases: [Psalms 62]
previous: ['Ps 61']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 63']
---
# Psalms 62

***


















###### 1 








Truly my soul waiteth upon God: from him cometh my salvation. 

















###### 2 








He only is my rock and my salvation; he is my defence; I shall not be greatly moved. 

















###### 3 








How long will ye imagine mischief against a man? ye shall be slain all of you: as a bowing wall shall ye be, and as a tottering fence. 

















###### 4 








They only consult to cast him down from his excellency: they delight in lies: they bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly. Selah. 

















###### 5 








My soul, wait thou only upon God; for my expectation is from him. 

















###### 6 








He only is my rock and my salvation: he is my defence; I shall not be moved. 

















###### 7 








In God is my salvation and my glory: the rock of my strength, and my refuge, is in God. 

















###### 8 








Trust in him at all times; ye people, pour out your heart before him: God is a refuge for us. Selah. 

















###### 9 








Surely men of low degree are vanity, and men of high degree are a lie: to be laid in the balance, they are altogether lighter than vanity. 

















###### 10 








Trust not in oppression, and become not vain in robbery: if riches increase, set not your heart upon them. 

















###### 11 








God hath spoken once; twice have I heard this; that power belongeth unto God. 

















###### 12 








Also unto thee, O Lord, belongeth mercy: for thou renderest to every man according to his work. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
