---
Aliases: [Psalms 76]
previous: ['Ps 75']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 77']
---
# Psalms 76

***


















###### 1 








In Judah is God known: his name is great in Israel. 

















###### 2 








In Salem also is his tabernacle, and his dwelling place in Zion. 

















###### 3 








There brake he the arrows of the bow, the shield, and the sword, and the battle. Selah. 

















###### 4 








Thou art more glorious and excellent than the mountains of prey. 

















###### 5 








The stouthearted are spoiled, they have slept their sleep: and none of the men of might have found their hands. 

















###### 6 








At thy rebuke, O God of Jacob, both the chariot and horse are cast into a dead sleep. 

















###### 7 








Thou, even thou, art to be feared: and who may stand in thy sight when once thou art angry? 

















###### 8 








Thou didst cause judgment to be heard from heaven; the earth feared, and was still, 

















###### 9 








When God arose to judgment, to save all the meek of the earth. Selah. 

















###### 10 








Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee: the remainder of wrath shalt thou restrain. 

















###### 11 








Vow, and pay unto the LORD your God: let all that be round about him bring presents unto him that ought to be feared. 

















###### 12 








He shall cut off the spirit of princes: he is terrible to the kings of the earth. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
