---
Aliases: [Psalms 75]
previous: ['Ps 74']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 76']
---
# Psalms 75

***


















###### 1 








Unto thee, O God, do we give thanks, unto thee do we give thanks: for that thy name is near thy wondrous works declare. 

















###### 2 








When I shall receive the congregation I will judge uprightly. 

















###### 3 








The earth and all the inhabitants thereof are dissolved: I bear up the pillars of it. Selah. 

















###### 4 








I said unto the fools, Deal not foolishly: and to the wicked, Lift not up the horn: 

















###### 5 








Lift not up your horn on high: speak not with a stiff neck. 

















###### 6 








For promotion cometh neither from the east, nor from the west, nor from the south. 

















###### 7 








But God is the judge: he putteth down one, and setteth up another. 

















###### 8 








For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup, and the wine is red; it is full of mixture; and he poureth out of the same: but the dregs thereof, all the wicked of the earth shall wring them out, and drink them. 

















###### 9 








But I will declare for ever; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob. 

















###### 10 








All the horns of the wicked also will I cut off; but the horns of the righteous shall be exalted. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
