---
Aliases: [Psalms 85]
previous: ['Ps 84']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 86']
---
# Psalms 85

***


















###### 1 








Lord, thou hast been favourable unto thy land: thou hast brought back the captivity of Jacob. 

















###### 2 








Thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people, thou hast covered all their sin. Selah. 

















###### 3 








Thou hast taken away all thy wrath: thou hast turned thyself from the fierceness of thine anger. 

















###### 4 








Turn us, O God of our salvation, and cause thine anger toward us to cease. 

















###### 5 








Wilt thou be angry with us for ever? wilt thou draw out thine anger to all generations? 

















###### 6 








Wilt thou not revive us again: that thy people may rejoice in thee? 

















###### 7 








Shew us thy mercy, O LORD, and grant us thy salvation. 

















###### 8 








I will hear what God the LORD will speak: for he will speak peace unto his people, and to his saints: but let them not turn again to folly. 

















###### 9 








Surely his salvation is nigh them that fear him; that glory may dwell in our land. 

















###### 10 








Mercy and truth are met together; righteousness and peace have kissed each other. 

















###### 11 








Truth shall spring out of the earth; and righteousness shall look down from heaven. 

















###### 12 








Yea, the LORD shall give that which is good; and our land shall yield her increase. 

















###### 13 








Righteousness shall go before him; and shall set us in the way of his steps. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
