---
Aliases: [Psalms 97]
previous: ['Ps 96']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 98']
---
# Psalms 97

***


















###### 1 








The LORD reigneth; let the earth rejoice; let the multitude of isles be glad thereof. 

















###### 2 








Clouds and darkness are round about him: righteousness and judgment are the habitation of his throne. 

















###### 3 








A fire goeth before him, and burneth up his enemies round about. 

















###### 4 








His lightnings enlightened the world: the earth saw, and trembled. 

















###### 5 








The hills melted like wax at the presence of the LORD, at the presence of the Lord of the whole earth. 

















###### 6 








The heavens declare his righteousness, and all the people see his glory. 

















###### 7 








Confounded be all they that serve graven images, that boast themselves of idols: worship him, all ye gods. 

















###### 8 








Zion heard, and was glad; and the daughters of Judah rejoiced because of thy judgments, O LORD. 

















###### 9 








For thou, LORD, art high above all the earth: thou art exalted far above all gods. 

















###### 10 








Ye that love the LORD, hate evil: he preserveth the souls of his saints; he delivereth them out of the hand of the wicked. 

















###### 11 








Light is sown for the righteous, and gladness for the upright in heart. 

















###### 12 








Rejoice in the LORD, ye righteous; and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
