---
Aliases: [Psalms 95]
previous: ['Ps 94']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 96']
---
# Psalms 95

***


















###### 1 








O come, let us sing unto the LORD: let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation. 

















###### 2 








Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving, and make a joyful noise unto him with psalms. 

















###### 3 








For the LORD is a great God, and a great King above all gods. 

















###### 4 








In his hand are the deep places of the earth: the strength of the hills is his also. 

















###### 5 








The sea is his, and he made it: and his hands formed the dry land. 

















###### 6 








O come, let us worship and bow down: let us kneel before the LORD our maker. 

















###### 7 








For he is our God; and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. To day if ye will hear his voice, 

















###### 8 








Harden not your heart, as in the provocation, and as in the day of temptation in the wilderness: 

















###### 9 








When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my work. 

















###### 10 








Forty years long was I grieved with this generation, and said, It is a people that do err in their heart, and they have not known my ways: 

















###### 11 








Unto whom I sware in my wrath that they should not enter into my rest. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
