---
Aliases: [Psalms 94]
previous: ['Ps 93']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 95']
---
# Psalms 94

***


















###### 1 








O Lord God, to whom vengeance belongeth; O God, to whom vengeance belongeth, shew thyself. 

















###### 2 








Lift up thyself, thou judge of the earth: render a reward to the proud. 

















###### 3 








LORD, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked triumph? 

















###### 4 








How long shall they utter and speak hard things? and all the workers of iniquity boast themselves? 

















###### 5 








They break in pieces thy people, O LORD, and afflict thine heritage. 

















###### 6 








They slay the widow and the stranger, and murder the fatherless. 

















###### 7 








Yet they say, The LORD shall not see, neither shall the God of Jacob regard it. 

















###### 8 








Understand, ye brutish among the people: and ye fools, when will ye be wise? 

















###### 9 








He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? he that formed the eye, shall he not see? 

















###### 10 








He that chastiseth the heathen, shall not he correct? he that teacheth man knowledge, shall not he know? 

















###### 11 








The LORD knoweth the thoughts of man, that they are vanity. 

















###### 12 








Blessed is the man whom thou chastenest, O LORD, and teachest him out of thy law; 

















###### 13 








That thou mayest give him rest from the days of adversity, until the pit be digged for the wicked. 

















###### 14 








For the LORD will not cast off his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance. 

















###### 15 








But judgment shall return unto righteousness: and all the upright in heart shall follow it. 

















###### 16 








Who will rise up for me against the evildoers? or who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity? 

















###### 17 








Unless the LORD had been my help, my soul had almost dwelt in silence. 

















###### 18 








When I said, My foot slippeth; thy mercy, O LORD, held me up. 

















###### 19 








In the multitude of my thoughts within me thy comforts delight my soul. 

















###### 20 








Shall the throne of iniquity have fellowship with thee, which frameth mischief by a law? 

















###### 21 








They gather themselves together against the soul of the righteous, and condemn the innocent blood. 

















###### 22 








But the LORD is my defence; and my God is the rock of my refuge. 

















###### 23 








And he shall bring upon them their own iniquity, and shall cut them off in their own wickedness; yea, the LORD our God shall cut them off. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
