---
Aliases: [Psalms 116]
previous: ['Ps 115']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 117']
---
# Psalms 116

***














###### 1 






I love the Lord, because He has heard [and now hears] my voice and my supplications. 













###### 2 






Because He has inclined His ear to me, therefore will I call upon Him as long as I live. 













###### 3 






The cords _and_ sorrows of death were around me, and the terrors of Sheol (the place of the dead) had laid hold of me; I suffered anguish and grief (trouble and sorrow). 













###### 4 






Then called I upon the name of the Lord: O Lord, I beseech You, save my life _and_ deliver me! 













###### 5 






Gracious is the Lord, and [rigidly] righteous; yes, our God is merciful. 













###### 6 






The Lord preserves the simple; I was brought low, and He helped _and_ saved me. 













###### 7 






Return to your rest, O my soul, for the Lord has dealt bountifully with you. 













###### 8 






For You have delivered my life from death, my eyes from tears, and my feet from stumbling _and_ falling. 













###### 9 






I will walk before the Lord in the land of the living. 













###### 10 






I believed (trusted in, relied on, and clung to my God), and therefore have I spoken [even when I said], I am greatly afflicted. 













###### 11 






I said in my haste, All men are deceitful _and_ liars. 













###### 12 






What shall I render to the Lord for all His benefits toward me? [How can I repay Him for all His bountiful dealings?] 













###### 13 






I will lift up the cup of salvation _and_ deliverance and call on the name of the Lord. 













###### 14 






I will pay my vows to the Lord, yes, in the presence of all His people. 













###### 15 






Precious (important and no light matter) in the sight of the Lord is the death of His saints (His loving ones). 













###### 16 






O Lord, truly I am Your servant; I am Your servant, the son of Your handmaid; You have loosed my bonds. 













###### 17 






I will offer to You the sacrifice of thanksgiving and will call on the name of the Lord. 













###### 18 






I will pay my vows to the Lord, yes, in the presence of all His people, 













###### 19 






In the courts of the Lord's house--in the midst of you, O Jerusalem. Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!) ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
