---
Aliases: [Psalms 104]
previous: ['Ps 103']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 105']
---
# Psalms 104

***














###### 1 






Bless (affectionately, gratefully praise) the Lord, O my soul! O Lord my God, You are very great! You are clothed with honor and majesty-- 













###### 2 






[You are the One] Who covers Yourself with light as with a garment, Who stretches out the heavens like a curtain _or_ a tent, 













###### 3 






Who lays the beams of the upper room of His abode in the waters [above the firmament], Who makes the clouds His chariot, Who walks on the wings of the wind, 













###### 4 






Who makes winds His messengers, flames of fire His ministers. 













###### 5 






You laid the foundations of the earth, that it should not be moved forever. 













###### 6 






You covered it with the deep as with a garment; the waters stood above the mountains. 













###### 7 






At Your rebuke they fled; at the voice of Your thunder they hastened away. 













###### 8 






The mountains rose, the valleys sank down to the place which You appointed for them. 













###### 9 






You have set a boundary [for the waters] which they may not pass over, that they turn not again to deluge the earth. 













###### 10 






He sends forth springs into the valleys; their waters run among the mountains. 













###### 11 






They give drink to every [wild] beast of the field; the wild asses quench their thirst there. 













###### 12 






Beside them the birds of the heavens have their nests; they sing among the branches. 













###### 13 






He waters the mountains from His upper rooms; the earth is satisfied _and_ abounds with the fruit of His works. 













###### 14 






He causes vegetation to grow for the cattle, and all that the earth produces for man to cultivate, that he may bring forth food out of the earth-- 













###### 15 






And wine that gladdens the heart of man, to make his face shine more than oil, and bread to support, refresh, _and_ strengthen man's heart. 













###### 16 






The trees of the Lord are watered abundantly _and_ are filled with sap, the cedars of Lebanon which He has planted, 













###### 17 






Where the birds make their nests; as for the stork, the fir trees are her house. 













###### 18 






The high mountains are for the wild goats; the rocks are a refuge for the conies _and_ badgers. 













###### 19 






[The Lord] appointed the moon for the seasons; the sun knows [the exact time of] its setting. 













###### 20 






You [O Lord] make darkness and it becomes night, in which creeps forth every wild beast of the forest. 













###### 21 






The young lions roar after their prey and seek their food from God. 













###### 22 






When the sun arises, they withdraw themselves and lie down in their dens. 













###### 23 






Man goes forth to his work and remains at his task until evening. 













###### 24 






O Lord, how many _and_ varied are Your works! In wisdom have You made them all; the earth is full of Your riches _and_ Your creatures. 













###### 25 






Yonder is the sea, great and wide, in which are swarms of innumerable creeping things, creatures both small and great. 













###### 26 






There go the ships of the sea, and Leviathan (the sea monster), which You have formed to sport in it. 













###### 27 






These all wait _and_ are dependent upon You, that You may give them their food in due season. 













###### 28 






When You give it to them, they gather it up; You open Your hand, and they are filled with good things. 













###### 29 






When You hide Your face, they are troubled _and_ dismayed; when You take away their breath, they die and return to their dust. 













###### 30 






When You send forth Your Spirit _and_ give them breath, they are created, and You replenish the face of the ground. 













###### 31 






May the glory of the Lord endure forever; may the Lord rejoice in His works-- 













###### 32 






Who looks on the earth, and it quakes _and_ trembles, Who touches the mountains, and they smoke! 













###### 33 






I will sing to the Lord as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have any being. 













###### 34 






May my meditation be sweet to Him; as for me, I will rejoice in the Lord. 













###### 35 






Let sinners be consumed from the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless (affectionately, gratefully praise) the Lord, O my soul! Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!) ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
