---
Aliases: [Psalms 112]
previous: ['Ps 111']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 113']
---
# Psalms 112

***














###### 1 






Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!) Blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) is the man who fears (reveres and worships) the Lord, who delights greatly in His commandments. 













###### 2 






His [spiritual] offspring shall be mighty upon earth; the generation of the upright shall be blessed. 













###### 3 






Prosperity _and_ welfare are in his house, and his righteousness endures forever. 













###### 4 






Light arises in the darkness for the upright, gracious, compassionate, _and_ just [who are in right standing with God]. 













###### 5 






It is well with the man who deals generously and lends, who conducts his affairs with justice. 













###### 6 






He will not be moved forever; the [uncompromisingly] righteous (the upright, in right standing with God) shall be in everlasting remembrance. 













###### 7 






He shall not be afraid of evil tidings; his heart is firmly fixed, trusting (leaning on and being confident) in the Lord. 













###### 8 






His heart is established _and_ steady, he will not be afraid while he waits to see his desire established upon his adversaries. 













###### 9 






He has distributed freely [he has given to the poor and needy]; his righteousness (uprightness and right standing with God) endures forever; his horn shall be exalted in honor. 













###### 10 






The wicked man will see it and be grieved _and_ angered, he will gnash his teeth and disappear [in despair]; the desire of the wicked shall perish _and_ come to nothing. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
