---
Aliases: [Psalms 102]
previous: ['Ps 101']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 103']
---
# Psalms 102

***














###### 1 






Hear my prayer, O Lord, and let my cry come to You. 













###### 2 






Hide not Your face from me in the day when I am in distress! Incline Your ear to me; in the day when I call, answer me speedily. 













###### 3 






For my days consume away like smoke, and my bones burn like a firebrand _or_ like a hearth. 













###### 4 






My heart is smitten like grass and withered, so that [in absorption] I forget to eat my food. 













###### 5 






By reason of my loud groaning [from suffering and trouble] my flesh cleaves to my bones. 













###### 6 






I am like a melancholy pelican _or_ vulture of the wilderness; I am like a [desolate] owl of the waste places. 













###### 7 






I am sleepless _and_ lie awake [mourning], like a bereaved sparrow alone on the housetop. 













###### 8 






My adversaries taunt _and_ reproach me all the day; and they who are angry with me use my name as a curse. 













###### 9 






For I have eaten the ashes [in which I sat] as if they were bread and have mingled my drink with weeping 













###### 10 






Because of Your indignation and Your wrath, for You have taken me up and cast me away. 













###### 11 






My days are like an evening shadow that stretches out _and_ declines [with the sun]; and I am withered like grass. 













###### 12 






But You, O Lord, are enthroned forever; and the fame of Your name endures to all generations. 













###### 13 






You will arise _and_ have mercy _and_ loving-kindness for Zion, for it is time to have pity _and_ compassion for her; yes, the set time has come [the moment designated]. 













###### 14 






For Your servants take [melancholy] pleasure in the stones [of her ruins] and show pity for her dust. 













###### 15 






So the nations shall fear _and_ worshipfully revere the name of the Lord, and all the kings of the earth Your glory. 













###### 16 






When the Lord builds up Zion, He will appear in His glory; 













###### 17 






He will regard the plea of the destitute and will not despise their prayer. 













###### 18 






Let this be recorded for the generation yet unborn, that a people yet to be created shall praise the Lord. 













###### 19 






For He looked down from the height of His sanctuary, from heaven did the Lord behold the earth, 













###### 20 






To hear the sighing _and_ groaning of the prisoner, to loose those who are appointed to death, 













###### 21 






So that men may declare the name of the Lord in Zion and His praise in Jerusalem 













###### 22 






When peoples are gathered together, and the kingdoms, to worship _and_ serve the Lord. 













###### 23 






He has afflicted _and_ weakened my strength, humbling _and_ bringing me low [with sorrow] in the way; He has shortened my days [aging me prematurely]. 













###### 24 






I said, O my God, take me not away in the midst of my days, You Whose years continue throughout all generations. 













###### 25 






At the beginning You existed _and_ laid the foundations of the earth; the heavens are the work of Your hands. 













###### 26 






They shall perish, but You shall remain _and_ endure; yes, all of them shall wear out _and_ become old like a garment. Like clothing You shall change them, and they shall be changed _and_ pass away. 













###### 27 






But You remain the same, and Your years shall have no end. 













###### 28 






The children of Your servants shall dwell safely _and_ continue, and their descendants shall be established before You. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
