---
Aliases: [Psalms 120]
previous: ['Ps 119']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 121']
---
# Psalms 120

***














###### 1 






In my distress I cried to the Lord, and He answered me. 













###### 2 






Deliver me, O Lord, from lying lips and from deceitful tongues. 













###### 3 






What shall be given to you? Or what more shall be done to you, you deceitful tongue?-- 













###### 4 






Sharp arrows of a [mighty] warrior, with [glowing] coals of the broom tree! 













###### 5 






Woe is me that I sojourn with Meshech, that I dwell beside the tents of Kedar [as if among notoriously barbarous people]! 













###### 6 






My life has too long had its dwelling with him who hates peace. 













###### 7 






I am for peace; but when I speak, they are for war. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 120:1 It is possible that the fifteen psalms known as the “Songs of Degrees or Ascents” were sung by the caravans of pilgrims going up to attend the annual feasts at Jerusalem. But it is equally possible that the title has reference to some peculiarity in connection with the music or the manner of using it.
