---
Aliases: [Psalms 122]
previous: ['Ps 121']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 123']
---
# Psalms 122

***














###### 1 






I was glad when they said to me, Let us go to the house of the Lord! 













###### 2 






Our feet are standing within your gates, O Jerusalem!-- 













###### 3 






Jerusalem, which is built as a city that is compacted together-- 













###### 4 






To which the tribes go up, even the tribes of the Lord, as was decreed _and_ as a testimony for Israel, to give thanks to the name of the Lord. 













###### 5 






For there the thrones of judgment were set, the thrones of the house of David. 













###### 6 






Pray for the peace of Jerusalem! May they prosper who love you [the Holy City]! 













###### 7 






May peace be within your walls and prosperity within your palaces! 













###### 8 






For my brethren and companions' sake, I will now say, Peace be within you! 













###### 9 






For the sake of the house of the Lord our God, I will seek, inquire for, _and_ require your good. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 122:1 See Psalm 120 title footnote.
