---
Aliases: [Psalms 16]
previous: ['Ps 15']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 17']
---
# Psalms 16

***














###### 1 






Keep _and_ protect me, O God, for in You I have found refuge, _and_ in You do I put my trust _and_ hide myself. 













###### 2 






I say to the Lord, You are my Lord; I have no good beside _or_ beyond You. 













###### 3 






As for the godly (the saints) who are in the land, they are the excellent, the noble, _and_ the glorious, in whom is all my delight. 













###### 4 






Their sorrows shall be multiplied who choose another god; their drink offerings of blood will I not offer or take their names upon my lips. 













###### 5 






The Lord is my chosen _and_ assigned portion, my cup; You hold _and_ maintain my lot. 













###### 6 






The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places; yes, I have a good heritage. 













###### 7 






I will bless the Lord, Who has given me counsel; yes, my heart instructs me in the night seasons. 













###### 8 






I have set the Lord continually before me; because He is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. 













###### 9 






Therefore my heart is glad and my glory [my inner self] rejoices; my body too shall rest _and_ confidently dwell in safety, 













###### 10 






For You will not abandon me to Sheol (the place of the dead), neither will You suffer Your holy one [Holy One] to see corruption. 













###### 11 






You will show me the path of life; in Your presence is fullness of joy, at Your right hand there are pleasures forevermore. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
