---
Aliases: [Psalms 147]
previous: ['Ps 146']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 148']
---
# Psalms 147

***














###### 1 






Praise the Lord! For it is good to sing praises to our God, for He is gracious _and_ lovely; praise is becoming _and_ appropriate. 













###### 2 






The Lord is building up Jerusalem; He is gathering together the exiles of Israel. 













###### 3 






He heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds [curing their pains and their sorrows]. 













###### 4 






He determines _and_ counts the number of the stars; He calls them all by their names. 













###### 5 






Great is our Lord and of great power; His understanding is inexhaustible _and_ boundless. 













###### 6 






The Lord lifts up the humble _and_ downtrodden; He casts the wicked down to the ground. 













###### 7 






Sing to the Lord with thanksgiving; sing praises with the harp _or_ the lyre to our God!-- 













###### 8 






Who covers the heavens with clouds, Who prepares rain for the earth, Who makes grass to grow on the mountains. 













###### 9 






He gives to the beast his food, and to the young ravens that for which they cry. 













###### 10 






He delights not in the strength of the horse, nor does He take pleasure in the legs of a man. 













###### 11 






The Lord takes pleasure in those who reverently _and_ worshipfully fear Him, in those who hope in His mercy _and_ loving-kindness. 













###### 12 






Praise the Lord, O Jerusalem! Praise your God, O Zion! 













###### 13 






For He has strengthened and made hard the bars of your gates, and He has blessed your children within you. 













###### 14 






He makes peace in your borders; He fills you with the finest of the wheat. 













###### 15 






He sends forth His commandment to the earth; His word runs very swiftly. 













###### 16 






He gives [to the earth] snow like [a blanket of] wool; He scatters the hoarfrost like ashes. 













###### 17 






He casts forth His ice like crumbs; who can stand before His cold? 













###### 18 






He sends out His word, and melts [ice and snow]; He causes His wind to blow, and the waters flow. 













###### 19 






He declares His word to Jacob, His statutes and His ordinances to Israel. 













###### 20 






He has not dealt so with any [other] nation; they have not known (understood, appreciated, given heed to, and cherished) His ordinances. Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!) ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
