---
Aliases: [Psalms 144]
previous: ['Ps 143']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 145']
---
# Psalms 144

***














###### 1 






Blessed be the Lord, my Rock _and_ my keen _and_ firm Strength, Who teaches my hands to war and my fingers to fight-- 













###### 2 






My Steadfast Love and my Fortress, my High Tower and my Deliverer, my Shield and He in Whom I trust _and_ take refuge, Who subdues my people under me. 













###### 3 






Lord, what is man that You take notice of him? Or [the] son of man that You take account of him? 













###### 4 






Man is like vanity _and_ a breath; his days are as a shadow that passes away. 













###### 5 






Bow Your heavens, O Lord, and come down; touch the mountains, and they shall smoke. 













###### 6 






Cast forth lightning and scatter [my enemies]; send out Your arrows and embarrass _and_ frustrate them. 













###### 7 






Stretch forth Your hand from above; rescue me and deliver me out of great waters, from the hands of hostile aliens (tribes around us) 













###### 8 






Whose mouths speak deceit and whose right hands are right hands [raised in taking] fraudulent oaths. 













###### 9 






I will sing a new song to You, O God; upon a harp, an instrument of ten strings, will I offer praises to You. 













###### 10 






You are He Who gives salvation to kings, Who rescues David His servant from the hurtful sword [of evil]. 













###### 11 






Rescue me and deliver me out of the power of [hostile] alien [tribes] whose mouths speak deceit and whose right hands are right hands [raised in taking] fraudulent oaths. 













###### 12 






When our sons shall be as plants grown large in their youth _and_ our daughters as sculptured corner pillars hewn like those of a palace; 













###### 13 






When our garners are full, affording all manner of store, and our sheep bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our pastures; 













###### 14 






When our oxen are well loaded; when there is no invasion [of hostile armies] and no going forth [against besiegers--when there is no murder or manslaughter] and no outcry in our streets; 













###### 15 






Happy _and_ blessed are the people who are in such a case; yes, happy (blessed, fortunate, prosperous, to be envied) are the people whose God is the Lord! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
