---
Aliases: [Psalms 25]
previous: ['Ps 24']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 26']
---
# Psalms 25

***














###### 1 






Unto You, O Lord, do I bring my life. 













###### 2 






O my God, I trust, lean on, rely on, _and_ am confident in You. Let me not be put to shame _or_ [my hope in You] be disappointed; let not my enemies triumph over me. 













###### 3 






Yes, let none who trust _and_ wait hopefully _and_ look for You be put to shame _or_ be disappointed; let them be ashamed who forsake the right _or_ deal treacherously without cause. 













###### 4 






Show me Your ways, O Lord; teach me Your paths. 













###### 5 






Guide me in Your truth _and_ faithfulness and teach me, for You are the God of my salvation; for You [You only and altogether] do I wait [expectantly] all the day long. 













###### 6 






Remember, O Lord, Your tender mercy and loving-kindness; for they have been ever from of old. 













###### 7 






Remember not the sins (the lapses and frailties) of my youth or my transgressions; according to Your mercy _and_ steadfast love remember me, for Your goodness' sake, O Lord. 













###### 8 






Good and upright is the Lord; therefore will He instruct sinners in [His] way. 













###### 9 






He leads the humble in what is right, and the humble He teaches His way. 













###### 10 






All the paths of the Lord are mercy _and_ steadfast love, even truth _and_ faithfulness are they for those who keep His covenant and His testimonies. 













###### 11 






For Your name's sake, O Lord, pardon my iniquity _and_ my guilt, for [they are] great. 













###### 12 






Who is the man who reverently fears _and_ worships the Lord? Him shall He teach in the way that he should choose. 













###### 13 






He himself shall dwell at ease, and his offspring shall inherit the land. 













###### 14 






The secret [of the sweet, satisfying companionship] of the Lord have they who fear (revere and worship) Him, and He will show them His covenant _and_ reveal to them its [deep, inner] meaning. 













###### 15 






My eyes are ever toward the Lord, for He will pluck my feet out of the net. 













###### 16 






[Lord] turn to me and be gracious to me, for I am lonely and afflicted. 













###### 17 






The troubles of my heart are multiplied; bring me out of my distresses. 













###### 18 






Behold my affliction and my pain and forgive all my sins [of thinking and doing]. 













###### 19 






Consider my enemies, for they abound; they hate me with cruel hatred. 













###### 20 






O keep me, Lord, and deliver me; let me not be ashamed _or_ disappointed, for my trust _and_ my refuge are in You. 













###### 21 






Let integrity and uprightness preserve me, for I wait for _and_ expect You. 













###### 22 






Redeem Israel, O God, out of all their troubles. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
