---
Aliases: [Psalms 23]
previous: ['Ps 22']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 24']
---
# Psalms 23

***














###### 1 






The Lord is my Shepherd [to feed, guide, and shield me], I shall not lack. 













###### 2 






He makes me lie down in [fresh, tender] green pastures; He leads me beside the still _and_ restful waters. 













###### 3 






He refreshes _and_ restores my life (my self); He leads me in the paths of righteousness [uprightness and right standing with Him--not for my earning it, but] for His name's sake. 













###### 4 






Yes, though I walk through the [deep, sunless] valley of the shadow of death, I will fear _or_ dread no evil, for You are with me; Your rod [to protect] and Your staff [to guide], they comfort me. 













###### 5 






You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with [^a]oil; my [brimming] cup runs over. 













###### 6 






Surely _or_ only goodness, mercy, _and_ unfailing love shall follow me all the days of my life, and through the length of my days the house of the Lord [and His presence] shall be my dwelling place. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 23:5 It is difficult for those living in a temperate climate to appreciate, but it was customary in hot climates to anoint the body with oil to protect it from excessive perspiration. When mixed with perfume, the oil imparted a delightfully refreshing and invigorating sensation. Athletes anointed their bodies as a matter of course before running a race. As the body, therefore, anointed with oil was refreshed, invigorated, and better fitted for action, so the Lord would anoint His “sheep” with the Holy Spirit, Whom oil symbolizes, to fit them to engage more freely in His service and run in the way He directs—in heavenly fellowship with Him.
