---
Aliases: [Psalms 20]
previous: ['Ps 19']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 21']
---
# Psalms 20

***














###### 1 






May the Lord answer you in the day of trouble! May the name of the God of Jacob set you up on high [and defend you]; 













###### 2 






Send you help from the sanctuary and support, refresh, _and_ strengthen you from Zion; 













###### 3 






Remember all your offerings and accept your burnt sacrifice. Selah [pause, and think of that]! 













###### 4 






May He grant you according to your heart's desire and fulfill all your plans. 













###### 5 






We will [shout in] triumph at your salvation _and_ victory, and in the name of our God we will set up our banners. May the Lord fulfill all your petitions. 













###### 6 






Now I know that the Lord saves His anointed; He will answer him from His holy heaven with the saving strength of His right hand. 













###### 7 






Some trust in _and_ boast of chariots and some of horses, but we will trust in _and_ boast of the name of the Lord our God. 













###### 8 






They are bowed down and fallen, but we are risen and stand upright. 













###### 9 






O Lord, give victory; let the King answer us when we call. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
