---
Aliases: [Psalms 21]
previous: ['Ps 20']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 22']
---
# Psalms 21

***














###### 1 






The king [David] shall joy in Your strength, O Lord; and in Your salvation how greatly shall he rejoice! 













###### 2 






You have given him his heart's desire and have not withheld the request of his lips. Selah [pause, and think of that]! 













###### 3 






For You send blessings of good things to meet him; You set a crown of pure gold on his head. 













###### 4 






He asked life of You, _and_ You gave it to him--long life forever and evermore. 













###### 5 






His glory is great because of Your aid; splendor and majesty You bestow upon him. 













###### 6 






For You make him to be blessed _and_ a blessing forever; You make him exceedingly glad with the joy of Your presence. 













###### 7 






For the king trusts, relies on, _and_ is confident in the Lord, and through the mercy _and_ steadfast love of the Most High he will never be moved. 













###### 8 






Your hand shall find all Your enemies; Your right hand shall find all those who hate You. 













###### 9 






You will make them as if in a blazing oven in the time of Your anger; the Lord will swallow them up in His wrath, and the fire will utterly consume them. 













###### 10 






Their offspring You will destroy from the earth, and their sons from among the children of men. 













###### 11 






For they planned evil against You; they conceived a mischievous plot which they are not able to perform. 













###### 12 






For You will make them turn their backs; You will aim Your bow [of divine justice] at their faces. 













###### 13 






Be exalted, Lord, in Your strength; we will sing and praise Your power. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
