---
Aliases: [Psalms 24]
previous: ['Ps 23']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 25']
---
# Psalms 24

***














###### 1 






The earth is the Lord's, and the fullness of it, the world and they who dwell in it. 













###### 2 






For He has founded it upon the seas and established it upon the currents _and_ the rivers. 













###### 3 






Who shall go up into the mountain of the Lord? Or who shall stand in His Holy Place? 













###### 4 






He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who has not lifted himself up to falsehood _or_ to what is false, nor sworn deceitfully. 













###### 5 






He shall receive blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation. 













###### 6 






This is the generation [description] of those who seek Him [who inquire of and for Him and of necessity require Him], who seek Your face, [O God of] Jacob. Selah [pause, and think of that]! 













###### 7 






Lift up your heads, O you gates; and be lifted up, you age-abiding doors, that the King of glory may come in. 













###### 8 






Who is the King of glory? The Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle. 













###### 9 






Lift up your heads, O you gates; yes, lift them up, you age-abiding doors, that the King of glory may come in. 













###### 10 






Who is [He then] this King of glory? The Lord of hosts, He is the King of glory. Selah [pause, and think of that]! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
