---
Aliases: [Psalms 50]
previous: ['Ps 49']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 51']
---
# Psalms 50

***














###### 1 






The Mighty One, God, the Lord, speaks and calls the earth from the rising of the sun to its setting. 













###### 2 






Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God shines forth. 













###### 3 






Our God comes and does not keep silence; a fire devours before Him, and round about Him a mighty tempest rages. 













###### 4 






He calls to the heavens above and to the earth, that He may judge His people: 













###### 5 






Gather together to Me My saints [those who have found grace in My sight], those who have made a covenant with Me by sacrifice. 













###### 6 






And the heavens declare His righteousness (rightness and justice), for God, He is judge. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 7 






Hear, O My people, and I will speak; O Israel, I will testify to you _and_ against you: I am God, your God. 













###### 8 






I do not reprove you for your sacrifices; your burnt offerings are continually before Me. 













###### 9 






I will accept no bull from your house nor he-goat out of your folds. 













###### 10 






For every beast of the forest is Mine, _and_ the cattle upon a thousand hills _or_ upon the mountains where thousands are. 













###### 11 






I know _and_ am acquainted with all the birds of the mountains, and the wild animals of the field are Mine _and_ are with Me, in My mind. 













###### 12 






If I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world and its fullness are Mine. 













###### 13 






Shall I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats? 













###### 14 






Offer to God the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and pay your vows to the Most High, 













###### 15 






And call on Me in the day of trouble; I will deliver you, and you shall honor _and_ glorify Me. 













###### 16 






But to the wicked, God says: What right have you to recite My statutes or take My covenant _or_ pledge on your lips, 













###### 17 






Seeing that you hate instruction _and_ correction and cast My words behind you [discarding them]? 













###### 18 






When you see a thief, you associate with him, and you have taken part with adulterers. 













###### 19 






You give your mouth to evil, and your tongue frames deceit. 













###### 20 






You sit and speak against your brother; you slander your own mother's son. 













###### 21 






These things you have done and I kept silent; you thought I was once entirely like you. But [now] I will reprove you and put [the charge] in order before your eyes. 













###### 22 






Now consider this, you who forget God, lest I tear you in pieces, and there be none to deliver. 













###### 23 






He who brings an offering of praise _and_ thanksgiving honors _and_ glorifies Me; and he who orders his way aright [who prepares the way that I may show him], to him I will demonstrate the salvation of God. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 50:1 Asaph was a Levite and one of the leaders of David’s choir. He was the head of one of the three families permanently charged with the temple music. His family formed a guild which bore his name and is frequently mentioned (II Chron. 20:14; 29:13; 29:30). Twelve psalms (50; 73-83) are attributed in the titles to the family of Asaph. 128 of Asaph’s family members, all singers, came back from Babylon and took part when the foundations of Zerubbabel’s temple were laid (Ezra 2:41; 3:10).
