---
Aliases: [Psalms 69]
previous: ['Ps 68']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 70']
---
# Psalms 69

***














###### 1 






Save me, O God, for the waters have come up to my neck [they threaten my life]. 













###### 2 






I sink in deep mire, where there is no foothold; I have come into deep waters, where the floods overwhelm me. 













###### 3 






I am weary with my crying; my throat is parched; my eyes fail with waiting [hopefully] for my God. 













###### 4 






Those who hate me without cause are more than the hairs of my head; those who would cut me off _and_ destroy me, being my enemies wrongfully, are many _and_ mighty. I am [forced] to restore what I did not steal. 













###### 5 






O God, You know my folly _and_ blundering; my sins _and_ my guilt are not hidden from You. 













###### 6 






Let not those who wait _and_ hope _and_ look for You, O Lord of hosts, be put to shame through me; let not those who seek _and_ inquire for _and_ require You [as their vital necessity] be brought to confusion _and_ dishonor through me, O God of Israel. 













###### 7 






Because for Your sake I have borne taunt _and_ reproach; confusion _and_ shame have covered my face. 













###### 8 






I have become a stranger to my brethren, and an alien to my mother's children. 













###### 9 






For zeal for Your house has eaten me up, and the reproaches _and_ insults of those who reproach _and_ insult You have fallen upon me. 













###### 10 






When I wept _and_ humbled myself with fasting, I was jeered at _and_ humiliated; 













###### 11 






When I made sackcloth my clothing, I became a byword (an object of scorn) to them. 













###### 12 






They who sit in [the city's] gate talk about me, and I am the song of the drunkards. 













###### 13 






But as for me, my prayer is to You, O Lord. At an acceptable _and_ opportune time, O God, in the multitude of Your mercy _and_ the abundance of Your loving-kindness hear me, _and_ in the truth _and_ faithfulness of Your salvation answer me. 













###### 14 






Rescue me out of the mire, and let me not sink; let me be delivered from those who hate me and from out of the deep waters. 













###### 15 






Let not the floodwaters overflow _and_ overwhelm me, neither let the deep swallow me up nor the [dug] pit [with water perhaps in the bottom] close its mouth over me. 













###### 16 






Hear _and_ answer me, O Lord, for Your loving-kindness is sweet _and_ comforting; according to Your plenteous tender mercy _and_ steadfast love turn to me. 













###### 17 






Hide not Your face from Your servant, for I am in distress; O answer me speedily! 













###### 18 






Draw close to me and redeem me; ransom _and_ set me free because of my enemies [lest they glory in my prolonged distress]! 













###### 19 






You know my reproach and my shame and my dishonor; my adversaries are all before You [fully known to You]. 













###### 20 






Insults _and_ reproach have broken my heart; I am full of heaviness _and_ I am distressingly sick. I looked for pity, but there was none, and for comforters, but I found none. 













###### 21 






They gave me also gall [poisonous and bitter] for my food, and in my thirst they gave me vinegar (a soured wine) to drink. 













###### 22 






Let their own table [with all its abundance and luxury] become a snare to them; and when they are secure in peace [or at their sacrificial feasts, let it become] a trap to them. 













###### 23 






Let their eyes be darkened so that they cannot see, and make their loins tremble continually [from terror, dismay, and feebleness]. 













###### 24 






Pour out Your indignation upon them, and let the fierceness of Your burning anger catch up with them. 













###### 25 






Let their habitation _and_ their encampment be a desolation; let no one dwell in their tents. 













###### 26 






For they pursue _and_ persecute him whom You have smitten, and they gossip about those whom You have wounded, [adding] to their grief _and_ pain. 













###### 27 






Let one [unforgiven] perverseness _and_ iniquity accumulate upon another for them [in Your book], and let them not come into Your righteousness _or_ be justified and acquitted by You. 













###### 28 






Let them be blotted out of the book of the living _and_ the book of life and not be enrolled among the [uncompromisingly] righteous (those upright and in right standing with God). 













###### 29 






But I am poor, sorrowful, and in pain; let Your salvation, O God, set me up on high. 













###### 30 






I will praise the name of God with a song and will magnify Him with thanksgiving, 













###### 31 






And it will please the Lord better than an ox or a bullock that has horns and hoofs. 













###### 32 






The humble shall see it and be glad; you who seek God, inquiring for _and_ requiring Him [as your first need], let your hearts revive _and_ live! 













###### 33 






For the Lord hears the poor _and_ needy and despises not His prisoners (His miserable and wounded ones). 













###### 34 






Let heaven and earth praise Him, the seas and everything that moves in them. 













###### 35 






For God will save Zion and rebuild the cities of Judah; and [His servants] shall remain _and_ dwell there and have it in their possession; 













###### 36 






The children of His servants shall inherit it, and those who love His name shall dwell in it. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
