---
Aliases: [Psalms 61]
previous: ['Ps 60']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 62']
---
# Psalms 61

***














###### 1 






Hear my cry, O God; listen to my prayer. 













###### 2 






From the end of the earth will I cry to You, when my heart is overwhelmed _and_ fainting; lead me to the rock that is higher than I [yes, a rock that is too high for me]. 













###### 3 






For You have been a shelter _and_ a refuge for me, a strong tower against the adversary. 













###### 4 






I will dwell in Your tabernacle forever; let me find refuge _and_ trust in the shelter of Your wings. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 5 






For You, O God, have heard my vows; You have given me the heritage of those who fear, revere, _and_ honor Your name. 













###### 6 






May You prolong the [true] [^a]King's life [adding days upon days], and may His years be to the last generation [of this world and the generations of the world to come]. 













###### 7 






May He sit enthroned forever before [the face of] God; O ordain that loving-kindness and faithfulness may watch over Him! 













###### 8 






So will I sing praise to Your name forever, paying my vows day by day. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 61:6 The thoughts of these verses (6-7) are fulfilled in Christ, David’s great Son.
