---
Aliases: [Psalms 67]
previous: ['Ps 66']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 68']
---
# Psalms 67

***














###### 1 






God be merciful _and_ gracious to us and bless us and cause His face to shine upon us _and_ among us--Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!-- 













###### 2 






That Your way may be known upon earth, Your saving power (Your deliverances and Your salvation) among all nations. 













###### 3 






Let the peoples praise You [turn away from their idols] _and_ give thanks to You, O God; let all the peoples praise _and_ give thanks to You. 













###### 4 






O let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for You will judge the peoples fairly and guide, lead, _or_ drive the nations upon earth. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 5 






Let the peoples praise You [turn away from their idols] _and_ give thanks to You, O God; let all the peoples praise _and_ give thanks to You! 













###### 6 






The earth has yielded its harvest [in evidence of God's approval]; God, even our own God, will bless us. 













###### 7 






God will bless us, and all the ends of the earth shall reverently fear Him. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
