---
Aliases: [Psalms 64]
previous: ['Ps 63']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 65']
---
# Psalms 64

***














###### 1 






Hear my voice, O God, in my complaint; guard _and_ preserve my life from the terror of the enemy. 













###### 2 






Hide me from the secret counsel _and_ conspiracy of the ungodly, from the scheming of evildoers, 













###### 3 






Who whet their tongues like a sword, who aim venomous words like arrows, 













###### 4 






Who shoot from ambush at the blameless man; suddenly do they shoot at him, without self-reproach _or_ fear. 













###### 5 






They encourage themselves in an evil purpose, they talk of laying snares secretly; they say, Who will discover _us_? 













###### 6 






They think out acts of injustice and say, We have accomplished a well-devised thing! For the inward thought of each one [is unsearchable] and his heart is deep. 













###### 7 






But God will shoot an unexpected arrow at them; and suddenly shall they be wounded. 













###### 8 






And they will be made to stumble, their own tongues turning against them; all who gaze upon them will shake their heads _and_ flee away. 













###### 9 






And all men shall [reverently] fear _and_ be in awe; and they will declare the work of God, for they will wisely consider _and_ acknowledge that it is His doing. 













###### 10 






The [uncompromisingly] righteous shall be glad in the Lord and shall trust _and_ take refuge in Him; and all the upright in heart shall glory _and_ offer praise. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
