---
Aliases: [Psalms 66]
previous: ['Ps 65']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 67']
---
# Psalms 66

***














###### 1 






Make a joyful noise unto God, all the earth; 













###### 2 






Sing forth the honor _and_ glory of His name; make His praise glorious! 













###### 3 






Say to God, How awesome _and_ fearfully glorious are Your works! Through the greatness of Your power shall Your enemies submit themselves to You [with feigned and reluctant obedience]. 













###### 4 






All the earth shall bow down to You and sing [praises] to You; they shall praise Your name in song. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 5 






Come and see the works of God; see how [to save His people He smites their foes; He is] terrible in His doings toward the children of men. 













###### 6 






He turned the sea into dry land, they crossed through the river on foot; there did we rejoice in Him. 













###### 7 






He rules by His might forever, His eyes observe _and_ keep watch _over_ the nations; let not the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 8 






Bless our God, O peoples, give Him grateful thanks _and_ make the voice of His praise be heard, 













###### 9 






Who put _and_ kept us among the living, and has not allowed our feet to slip. 













###### 10 






For You, O God, have proved us; You have tried us as silver is tried, refined, _and_ purified. 













###### 11 






You brought us into the net (the prison fortress, the dungeon); You laid a heavy burden upon our loins. 













###### 12 






You caused men to ride over our heads [when we were prostrate]; we went through fire and through water, but You brought us out into a broad, moist place [to abundance and refreshment and the open air]. 













###### 13 






I will come into Your house with burnt offerings [of entire consecration]; I will pay You my vows, 













###### 14 






Which my lips uttered and my mouth promised when I was in distress. 













###### 15 






I will offer to You burnt offerings of fat lambs, with rams consumed in sweet-smelling smoke; I will offer bullocks and he-goats. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 16 






Come and hear, all you who reverently _and_ worshipfully fear God, and I will declare what He has done for me! 













###### 17 






I cried aloud to Him; He was extolled _and_ high praise was under my tongue. 













###### 18 






If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me; 













###### 19 






But certainly God has heard me; He has given heed to the voice of my prayer. 













###### 20 






Blessed be God, Who has not rejected my prayer nor removed His mercy _and_ loving-kindness from being [as it always is] with me. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
