---
Aliases: [Psalms 86]
previous: ['Ps 85']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 87']
---
# Psalms 86

***














###### 1 






Incline Your ear, O Lord, and answer me, for I am poor _and_ distressed, needy _and_ desiring. 













###### 2 






Preserve my life, for I am godly _and_ dedicated; O my God, save Your servant, for I trust in You [leaning and believing on You, committing all and confidently looking to You, without fear or doubt]. 













###### 3 






Be merciful _and_ gracious to me, O Lord, for to You do I cry all the day. 













###### 4 






Make me, Your servant, to rejoice, O Lord, for to You do I lift myself up. 













###### 5 






For You, O Lord, are good, and ready to forgive [our trespasses, sending them away, letting them go completely and forever]; and You are abundant in mercy _and_ loving-kindness to all those who call upon You. 













###### 6 






Give ear, O Lord, to my prayer; and listen to the cry of my supplications. 













###### 7 






In the day of my trouble I will call on You, for You will answer me. 













###### 8 






There is none like unto You among the gods, O Lord, neither are their works like unto Yours. 













###### 9 






All nations whom You have made shall come and fall down before You, O Lord; and they shall glorify Your name. 













###### 10 






For You are great and work wonders! You alone are God. 













###### 11 






Teach me Your way, O Lord, that I may walk _and_ live in Your truth; direct _and_ unite my heart [solely, reverently] to fear _and_ honor Your name. 













###### 12 






I will confess _and_ praise You, O Lord my God, with my whole (united) heart; and I will glorify Your name forevermore. 













###### 13 






For great is Your mercy _and_ loving-kindness toward me; and You have delivered me from the depths of Sheol [from the exceeding depths of affliction]. 













###### 14 






O God, the proud _and_ insolent are risen against me; a rabble of violent _and_ ruthless men has sought _and_ demanded my life, and they have not set You before them. 













###### 15 






But You, O Lord, are a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in mercy _and_ loving-kindness and truth. 













###### 16 






O turn to me and have mercy _and_ be gracious to me; grant strength (might and inflexibility to temptation) to Your servant and save the son of Your handmaiden. 













###### 17 






Show me a sign of [Your evident] goodwill _and_ favor, that those who hate me may see it and be put to shame, because You, Lord, [will show Your approval of me when You] help and comfort me. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
