---
Aliases: [Psalms 98]
previous: ['Ps 97']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 99']
---
# Psalms 98

***














###### 1 






O sing to the Lord a new song, for He has done marvelous things; His right hand and His holy arm have wrought salvation for Him. 













###### 2 






The Lord has made known His salvation; His righteousness has He openly shown in the sight of the nations. 













###### 3 






He has [earnestly] remembered His mercy _and_ loving-kindness, His truth _and_ His faithfulness toward the house of Israel; all the ends of the earth have witnessed the salvation of our God. 













###### 4 






Make a joyful noise to the Lord, all the earth; break forth and sing for joy, yes, sing praises! 













###### 5 






Sing praises to the Lord with the lyre, with the lyre and the voice of melody. 













###### 6 






With trumpets and the sound of the horn make a joyful noise before the King, the Lord! 













###### 7 






Let the sea roar, and all that fills it, the world, and those who dwell in it! 













###### 8 






Let the rivers clap their hands; together let the hills sing for joy 













###### 9 






Before the Lord, for He is coming to judge [and rule] the earth; with righteousness will He judge [and rule] the world, and the peoples with equity. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
