---
Aliases: [Psalms 99]
previous: ['Ps 98']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 100']
---
# Psalms 99

***














###### 1 






The Lord reigns, let the peoples tremble [with reverential fear]! He sits [enthroned] above the cherubim, let the earth quake! 













###### 2 






The Lord is great in Zion, and He is high above all the peoples. 













###### 3 






Let them confess _and_ praise Your great name, awesome _and_ reverence inspiring! It is holy, _and_ holy is He! 













###### 4 






The strength of the king who loves righteousness _and_ equity You establish in uprightness; You execute justice and righteousness in Jacob (Israel). 













###### 5 






Extol the Lord our God and worship at His footstool! Holy is He! 













###### 6 






Moses and Aaron were among His priests, and Samuel was among those who called upon His name; they called upon the Lord, and He answered them. 













###### 7 






He spoke to them in the pillar of cloud; they kept His testimonies and the statutes that He gave them. 













###### 8 






You answered them, O Lord our God; You were a forgiving God to them, although avenging their evildoing _and_ wicked practices. 













###### 9 






Extol the Lord our God and worship at His holy hill, for the Lord our God is holy! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
