---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 34]
previous: ['2 Chr 33']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 35']
---
# 2 Chronicles 34

***


###### 1 
Josiah _was_ eight years old when he became king, and he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem. 

###### 2 
And he did _what was_ right in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the ways of his father David; _he_ did _not_ turn aside to the right hand or to the left. 

###### 3 
For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was still young, he began to seek the God of his father David; and in the twelfth year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem of the [^a]high places, the wooden images, the carved images, and the molded images. 

###### 4 
They broke down the altars of the Baals in his presence, and the incense altars which _were_ above them he cut down; and the wooden images, the carved images, and the molded images he broke in pieces, and made dust of them and scattered _it_ on the graves of those who had sacrificed to them. 

###### 5 
He also burned the bones of the priests on their altars, and cleansed Judah and Jerusalem. 

###### 6 
And _so he did_ in the cities of Manasseh, Ephraim, and Simeon, as far as Naphtali and all around, with [^b]axes. 

###### 7 
When he had broken down the altars and the wooden images, had beaten the carved images into powder, and cut down all the incense altars throughout all the land of Israel, he returned to Jerusalem. ## Hilkiah Finds the Book of the Law 

###### 8 
In the eighteenth year of his reign, when he had purged the land and the [^c]temple, he sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, Maaseiah the governor of the city, and Joah the son of Joahaz the recorder, to repair the house of the Lord his God. 

###### 9 
When they came to Hilkiah the high priest, they delivered the money that was brought into the house of God, which the Levites who kept the doors had gathered from the hand of Manasseh and Ephraim, from all the remnant of Israel, from all Judah and Benjamin, and _which_ they had brought back to Jerusalem. 

###### 10 
Then they put _it_ in the hand of the foremen who had the oversight of the house of the Lord; and they gave it to the workmen who worked in the house of the Lord, to repair and restore the house. 

###### 11 
They gave _it_ to the craftsmen and builders to buy hewn stone and timber for beams, and to floor the houses which the kings of Judah had destroyed. 

###### 12 
And the men did the work faithfully. Their overseers _were_ Jahath and Obadiah the Levites, of the sons of Merari, and Zechariah and Meshullam, of the sons of the Kohathites, to supervise. _Others of_ the Levites, all of whom were skillful with instruments of music, 

###### 13 
_were_ over the burden bearers and _were_ overseers of all who did work in any kind of service. And _some_ of the Levites _were_ scribes, officers, and gatekeepers. 

###### 14 
Now when they brought out the money that was brought into the house of the Lord, Hilkiah the priest found the Book of the Law of the Lord _given_ by Moses. 

###### 15 
Then Hilkiah answered and said to Shaphan the scribe, "I have found the Book of the Law in the house of the Lord." And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan. 

###### 16 
So Shaphan carried the book to the king, bringing the king word, saying, "All that was committed to your servants they are doing. 

###### 17 
And they have [^d]gathered the money that was found in the house of the Lord, and have delivered it into the hand of the overseers and the workmen." 

###### 18 
Then Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, "Hilkiah the priest has given me a book." And Shaphan read it before the king. 

###### 19 
Thus it happened, when the king heard the words of the Law, that he tore his clothes. 

###### 20 
Then the king commanded Hilkiah, Ahikam the son of Shaphan, [^e]Abdon the son of Micah, Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah a servant of the king, saying, 

###### 21 
"Go, inquire of the Lord for me, and for those who are left in Israel and Judah, concerning the words of the book that is found; for great _is_ the wrath of the Lord that is poured out on us, because our fathers have not kept the word of the Lord, to do according to all that is written in this book." 

###### 22 
So Hilkiah and those the king _had appointed_ went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of [^f]Tokhath, the son of [^g]Hasrah, keeper of the wardrobe. (She dwelt in Jerusalem in the Second Quarter.) And they spoke to her to that _effect._ 

###### 23 
Then she answered them, "Thus says the Lord God of Israel, 'Tell the man who sent you to Me, 

###### 24 
"Thus says the Lord: 'Behold, I will bring calamity on this place and on its inhabitants, all the curses that are written in the book which they have read before the king of Judah, 

###### 25 
because they have forsaken Me and burned incense to other gods, that they might provoke Me to anger with all the works of their hands. Therefore My wrath will be poured out on this place, and not be quenched.' " ' 

###### 26 
But as for the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of the Lord, in this manner you shall speak to him, 'Thus says the Lord God of Israel: "_Concerning_ the words which you have heard-- 

###### 27 
because your heart was tender, and you humbled yourself before God when you heard His words against this place and against its inhabitants, and you humbled yourself before Me, and you tore your clothes and wept before Me, I also have heard _you,_" says the Lord. 

###### 28 
"Surely I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered to your grave in peace; and your eyes shall not see all the calamity which I will bring on this place and its inhabitants." ' " So they brought back word to the king. ## Josiah Restores True Worship 

###### 29 
Then the king sent and gathered all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem. 

###### 30 
The king went up to the house of the Lord, with all the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem--the priests and the Levites, and all the people, great and small. And he read in their hearing all the words of the Book of the Covenant which had been found in the house of the Lord. 

###### 31 
Then the king stood in his place and made a covenant before the Lord, to follow the Lord, and to keep His commandments and His testimonies and His statutes with all his heart and all his soul, to perform the words of the covenant that were written in this book. 

###### 32 
And he made all who were present in Jerusalem and Benjamin take a stand. So the inhabitants of Jerusalem did according to the covenant of God, the God of their fathers. 

###### 33 
Thus Josiah removed all the abominations from all the country that _belonged_ to the children of Israel, and made all who were present in Israel [^h]diligently serve the Lord their God. All his days they did not depart from following the Lord God of their fathers. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 34:3 Places for pagan worship [^b]: 2 Chronicles 34:6 Lit. _swords_ [^c]: 2 Chronicles 34:8 Lit. _house_ [^d]: 2 Chronicles 34:17 Lit. _poured out_ [^e]: 2 Chronicles 34:20 _Achbor the son of Michaiah,_ [2 Kin. 22:12] [^f]: 2 Chronicles 34:22 _Tikvah,_ [2 Kin. 22:14] [^g]: 2 Chronicles 34:22 _Harhas,_ [2 Kin. 22:14] [^h]: 2 Chronicles 34:33 Lit. _serve to serve_
