---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 14]
previous: ['1 Cor 13']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 15']
---
# 1 Corinthians 14

***




















###### 1 









Follow the way of love and eagerly desire gifts of the Spirit, especially prophecy. 



















###### 2 









For anyone who speaks in a tongue[^a] does not speak to people but to God. Indeed, no one understands them; they utter mysteries by the Spirit. 



















###### 3 









But the one who prophesies speaks to people for their strengthening, encouraging and comfort. 



















###### 4 









Anyone who speaks in a tongue edifies themselves, but the one who prophesies edifies the church. 



















###### 5 









I would like every one of you to speak in tongues,[^b] but I would rather have you prophesy. The one who prophesies is greater than the one who speaks in tongues,[^c] unless someone interprets, so that the church may be edified. 



















###### 6 









Now, brothers and sisters, if I come to you and speak in tongues, what good will I be to you, unless I bring you some revelation or knowledge or prophecy or word of instruction? 



















###### 7 









Even in the case of lifeless things that make sounds, such as the pipe or harp, how will anyone know what tune is being played unless there is a distinction in the notes? 



















###### 8 









Again, if the trumpet does not sound a clear call, who will get ready for battle? 



















###### 9 









So it is with you. Unless you speak intelligible words with your tongue, how will anyone know what you are saying? You will just be speaking into the air. 



















###### 10 









Undoubtedly there are all sorts of languages in the world, yet none of them is without meaning. 



















###### 11 









If then I do not grasp the meaning of what someone is saying, I am a foreigner to the speaker, and the speaker is a foreigner to me. 



















###### 12 









So it is with you. Since you are eager for gifts of the Spirit, try to excel in those that build up the church. 



















###### 13 









For this reason the one who speaks in a tongue should pray that they may interpret what they say. 



















###### 14 









For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my mind is unfruitful. 



















###### 15 









So what shall I do? I will pray with my spirit, but I will also pray with my understanding; I will sing with my spirit, but I will also sing with my understanding. 



















###### 16 









Otherwise when you are praising God in the Spirit, how can someone else, who is now put in the position of an inquirer,[^d] say "Amen" to your thanksgiving, since they do not know what you are saying? 



















###### 17 









You are giving thanks well enough, but no one else is edified. 



















###### 18 









I thank God that I speak in tongues more than all of you. 



















###### 19 









But in the church I would rather speak five intelligible words to instruct others than ten thousand words in a tongue. 



















###### 20 









Brothers and sisters, stop thinking like children. In regard to evil be infants, but in your thinking be adults. 



















###### 21 









In the Law it is written: "With other tongues and through the lips of foreigners I will speak to this people, but even then they will not listen to me, says the Lord."[^e] 



















###### 22 









Tongues, then, are a sign, not for believers but for unbelievers; prophecy, however, is not for unbelievers but for believers. 



















###### 23 









So if the whole church comes together and everyone speaks in tongues, and inquirers or unbelievers come in, will they not say that you are out of your mind? 



















###### 24 









But if an unbeliever or an inquirer comes in while everyone is prophesying, they are convicted of sin and are brought under judgment by all, 



















###### 25 









as the secrets of their hearts are laid bare. So they will fall down and worship God, exclaiming, "God is really among you!" ## Good Order in Worship 



















###### 26 









What then shall we say, brothers and sisters? When you come together, each of you has a hymn, or a word of instruction, a revelation, a tongue or an interpretation. Everything must be done so that the church may be built up. 



















###### 27 









If anyone speaks in a tongue, two--or at the most three--should speak, one at a time, and someone must interpret. 



















###### 28 









If there is no interpreter, the speaker should keep quiet in the church and speak to himself and to God. 



















###### 29 









Two or three prophets should speak, and the others should weigh carefully what is said. 



















###### 30 









And if a revelation comes to someone who is sitting down, the first speaker should stop. 



















###### 31 









For you can all prophesy in turn so that everyone may be instructed and encouraged. 



















###### 32 









The spirits of prophets are subject to the control of prophets. 



















###### 33 









For God is not a God of disorder but of peace--as in all the congregations of the Lord's people. 



















###### 34 









Women[^f] should remain silent in the churches. They are not allowed to speak, but must be in submission, as the law says. 



















###### 35 









If they want to inquire about something, they should ask their own husbands at home; for it is disgraceful for a woman to speak in the church.[^g] 



















###### 36 









Or did the word of God originate with you? Or are you the only people it has reached? 



















###### 37 









If anyone thinks they are a prophet or otherwise gifted by the Spirit, let them acknowledge that what I am writing to you is the Lord's command. 



















###### 38 









But if anyone ignores this, they will themselves be ignored.[^h] 



















###### 39 









Therefore, my brothers and sisters, be eager to prophesy, and do not forbid speaking in tongues. 



















###### 40 









But everything should be done in a fitting and orderly way. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Corinthians 14:2 Or _in another language_; also in verses 4, 13, 14, 19, 26 and 27 [^b]: 1 Corinthians 14:5 Or _in other languages_; also in verses 6, 18, 22, 23 and 39 [^c]: 1 Corinthians 14:5 Or _in other languages_; also in verses 6, 18, 22, 23 and 39 [^d]: 1 Corinthians 14:16 The Greek word for _inquirer_ is a technical term for someone not fully initiated into a religion; also in verses 23 and 24. [^e]: 1 Corinthians 14:21 Isaiah 28:11,12 [^f]: 1 Corinthians 14:34 Or _peace. As in all the congregations of the Lord’s people, <sup class="versenum">34 </sup>women_ [^g]: 1 Corinthians 14:35 In a few manuscripts these verses come after verse 40. [^h]: 1 Corinthians 14:38 Some manuscripts _But anyone who is ignorant of this will be ignorant_
