---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 11]
previous: ['1 Cor 10']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 12']
---
# 1 Corinthians 11

***
# 1 Corinthians 11 (New International Version) ## On Covering the Head in Worship 



















###### 2 









I praise you for remembering me in everything and for holding to the traditions just as I passed them on to you. 



















###### 3 









But I want you to realize that the head of every man is Christ, and the head of the woman is man,[^a] and the head of Christ is God. 



















###### 4 









Every man who prays or prophesies with his head covered dishonors his head. 



















###### 5 









But every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head--it is the same as having her head shaved. 



















###### 6 









For if a woman does not cover her head, she might as well have her hair cut off; but if it is a disgrace for a woman to have her hair cut off or her head shaved, then she should cover her head. 



















###### 7 









A man ought not to cover his head,[^b] since he is the image and glory of God; but woman is the glory of man. 



















###### 8 









For man did not come from woman, but woman from man; 



















###### 9 









neither was man created for woman, but woman for man. 



















###### 10 









It is for this reason that a woman ought to have authority over her own[^c] head, because of the angels. 



















###### 11 









Nevertheless, in the Lord woman is not independent of man, nor is man independent of woman. 



















###### 12 









For as woman came from man, so also man is born of woman. But everything comes from God. 



















###### 13 









Judge for yourselves: Is it proper for a woman to pray to God with her head uncovered? 



















###### 14 









Does not the very nature of things teach you that if a man has long hair, it is a disgrace to him, 



















###### 15 









but that if a woman has long hair, it is her glory? For long hair is given to her as a covering. 



















###### 16 









If anyone wants to be contentious about this, we have no other practice--nor do the churches of God. ## Correcting an Abuse of the Lord's Supper 



















###### 17 









In the following directives I have no praise for you, for your meetings do more harm than good. 



















###### 18 









In the first place, I hear that when you come together as a church, there are divisions among you, and to some extent I believe it. 



















###### 19 









No doubt there have to be differences among you to show which of you have God's approval. 



















###### 20 









So then, when you come together, it is not the Lord's Supper you eat, 



















###### 21 









for when you are eating, some of you go ahead with your own private suppers. As a result, one person remains hungry and another gets drunk. 



















###### 22 









Don't you have homes to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God by humiliating those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you? Certainly not in this matter! 



















###### 23 









For I received from the Lord what I also passed on to you: The Lord Jesus, on the night he was betrayed, took bread, 



















###### 24 









and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, "This is my body, which is for you; do this in remembrance of me." 



















###### 25 









In the same way, after supper he took the cup, saying, "This cup is the new covenant in my blood; do this, whenever you drink it, in remembrance of me." 



















###### 26 









For whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. 



















###### 27 









So then, whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of sinning against the body and blood of the Lord. 



















###### 28 









Everyone ought to examine themselves before they eat of the bread and drink from the cup. 



















###### 29 









For those who eat and drink without discerning the body of Christ eat and drink judgment on themselves. 



















###### 30 









That is why many among you are weak and sick, and a number of you have fallen asleep. 



















###### 31 









But if we were more discerning with regard to ourselves, we would not come under such judgment. 



















###### 32 









Nevertheless, when we are judged in this way by the Lord, we are being disciplined so that we will not be finally condemned with the world. 



















###### 33 









So then, my brothers and sisters, when you gather to eat, you should all eat together. 



















###### 34 









Anyone who is hungry should eat something at home, so that when you meet together it may not result in judgment. And when I come I will give further directions. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Corinthians 11:3 Or _of the wife is her husband_ [^b]: 1 Corinthians 11:7 Or _<sup class="versenum">4 </sup>Every man who prays or prophesies with long hair dishonors his head. <sup class="versenum">5 </sup>But every woman who prays or prophesies with no covering of hair dishonors her head—she is just like one of the “shorn women.” <sup class="versenum">6 </sup>If a woman has no covering, let her be for now with short hair; but since it is a disgrace for a woman to have her hair shorn or shaved, she should grow it again. <sup class="versenum">7 </sup>A man ought not to have long hair_ [^c]: 1 Corinthians 11:10 Or _have a sign of authority on her_
