---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 13]
previous: ['1 Cor 12']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 14']
---
# 1 Corinthians 13

***




















###### 1 









If I speak in the tongues[^a] of men or of angels, but do not have love, I am only a resounding gong or a clanging cymbal. 



















###### 2 









If I have the gift of prophecy and can fathom all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have a faith that can move mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing. 



















###### 3 









If I give all I possess to the poor and give over my body to hardship that I may boast,[^b] but do not have love, I gain nothing. 



















###### 4 









Love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud. 



















###### 5 









It does not dishonor others, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs. 



















###### 6 









Love does not delight in evil but rejoices with the truth. 



















###### 7 









It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres. 



















###### 8 









Love never fails. But where there are prophecies, they will cease; where there are tongues, they will be stilled; where there is knowledge, it will pass away. 



















###### 9 









For we know in part and we prophesy in part, 



















###### 10 









but when completeness comes, what is in part disappears. 



















###### 11 









When I was a child, I talked like a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I put the ways of childhood behind me. 



















###### 12 









For now we see only a reflection as in a mirror; then we shall see face to face. Now I know in part; then I shall know fully, even as I am fully known. 



















###### 13 









And now these three remain: faith, hope and love. But the greatest of these is love. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Corinthians 13:1 Or _languages_ [^b]: 1 Corinthians 13:3 Some manuscripts _body to the flames_
