---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 16]
previous: ['1 Cor 15']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
---
# 1 Corinthians 16

***




















###### 1 









Now about the collection for the Lord's people: Do what I told the Galatian churches to do. 



















###### 2 









On the first day of every week, each one of you should set aside a sum of money in keeping with your income, saving it up, so that when I come no collections will have to be made. 



















###### 3 









Then, when I arrive, I will give letters of introduction to the men you approve and send them with your gift to Jerusalem. 



















###### 4 









If it seems advisable for me to go also, they will accompany me. ## Personal Requests 



















###### 5 









After I go through Macedonia, I will come to you--for I will be going through Macedonia. 



















###### 6 









Perhaps I will stay with you for a while, or even spend the winter, so that you can help me on my journey, wherever I go. 



















###### 7 









For I do not want to see you now and make only a passing visit; I hope to spend some time with you, if the Lord permits. 



















###### 8 









But I will stay on at Ephesus until Pentecost, 



















###### 9 









because a great door for effective work has opened to me, and there are many who oppose me. 



















###### 10 









When Timothy comes, see to it that he has nothing to fear while he is with you, for he is carrying on the work of the Lord, just as I am. 



















###### 11 









No one, then, should treat him with contempt. Send him on his way in peace so that he may return to me. I am expecting him along with the brothers. 



















###### 12 









Now about our brother Apollos: I strongly urged him to go to you with the brothers. He was quite unwilling to go now, but he will go when he has the opportunity. 



















###### 13 









Be on your guard; stand firm in the faith; be courageous; be strong. 



















###### 14 









Do everything in love. 



















###### 15 









You know that the household of Stephanas were the first converts in Achaia, and they have devoted themselves to the service of the Lord's people. I urge you, brothers and sisters, 



















###### 16 









to submit to such people and to everyone who joins in the work and labors at it. 



















###### 17 









I was glad when Stephanas, Fortunatus and Achaicus arrived, because they have supplied what was lacking from you. 



















###### 18 









For they refreshed my spirit and yours also. Such men deserve recognition. ## Final Greetings 



















###### 19 









The churches in the province of Asia send you greetings. Aquila and Priscilla[^a] greet you warmly in the Lord, and so does the church that meets at their house. 



















###### 20 









All the brothers and sisters here send you greetings. Greet one another with a holy kiss. 



















###### 21 









I, Paul, write this greeting in my own hand. 



















###### 22 









If anyone does not love the Lord, let that person be cursed! Come, Lord[^b]! 



















###### 23 









The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you. 



















###### 24 









My love to all of you in Christ Jesus. Amen.[^c] NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Corinthians 16:19 Greek _Prisca_, a variant of _Priscilla_ [^b]: 1 Corinthians 16:22 The Greek for _Come, Lord_ reproduces an Aramaic expression (_Marana tha_) used by early Christians. [^c]: 1 Corinthians 16:24 Some manuscripts do not have _Amen_.
