---
Aliases: [2 Corinthians 12]
previous: ['2 Cor 11']
up: ['2 Corinthians']
next: ['2 Cor 13']
---
# 2 Corinthians 12

***








###### 1 



Boasting is necessary, though it is not beneficial; but I will go on to visions and revelations [^a]of the Lord. 







###### 2 



I know a man in Christ, who fourteen years ago--whether in the body I do not know, or out of the body I do not know, God knows--such a man was caught up to the third heaven. 







###### 3 



And I know how such a man--whether in the body or apart from the body I do not know, God knows-- 







###### 4 



was caught up into Paradise and heard inexpressible words, which a man is not permitted to speak. 







###### 5 



In behalf of such a man I will boast; but in my own behalf I will not boast, except regarding _my_ weaknesses. 







###### 6 



For if I do wish to boast I will not be foolish, for I will be speaking the truth; but I refrain _from this_, so that no one will credit me with more than he sees _in_ me or hears from me. ## A Thorn in the Flesh 







###### 7 



Because of the extraordinary _greatness_ of the revelations, for this reason, to keep me from exalting myself, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to [^b]torment me--to keep me from exalting myself! 







###### 8 



Concerning this I pleaded with the Lord three times that it might leave me. 







###### 9 



And He has said to me, "My grace is sufficient for you, for power is perfected in weakness." Most gladly, therefore, I will rather boast [^c]about my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may dwell in me. 







###### 10 



Therefore I delight in weaknesses, in [^d]insults, in distresses, in persecutions, in difficulties, in behalf of Christ; for when I am weak, then I am strong. 







###### 11 



I have become foolish; you yourselves compelled me. Actually I should have been commended by you, since I was in no respect inferior to the [^e]most eminent apostles, even though I am a nobody. 







###### 12 



The distinguishing marks [^f]of a true apostle were performed among you with all perseverance, by [^g]signs, wonders, and [^h]miracles. 







###### 13 



For in what respect were you treated as inferior to the rest of the churches, except that I myself did not become a burden to you? Forgive me this wrong! 







###### 14 



Here for this third time I am ready to come to you, and I will not be a burden to you; for I do not seek what is yours, but you; for children are not responsible to save up for _their_ parents, but parents for _their_ children. 







###### 15 



I will most gladly spend and be expended for your souls. If I love you more, am I to be loved less? 







###### 16 



But be that as it may, I did not burden you myself; nevertheless, devious person that I am, I took you in by deceit. 







###### 17 



_Certainly_ I have not taken advantage of you through any of those whom I have sent to you, have I? 







###### 18 



I urged Titus _to go_, and I sent the brother with him. Titus did not take any advantage of you, did he? Did we not [^i]conduct ourselves [^j]in the same spirit _and walk_ in the same steps? 







###### 19 



All this time [^k]you have been thinking that we are defending ourselves to you. _Actually_, it is in the sight of God that we have been speaking in Christ; and all for building you up, beloved. 







###### 20 



For I am afraid that perhaps when I come I may find you to be not what I wish, and may be found by you to be not what you wish; that perhaps _there will be_ strife, jealousy, angry tempers, selfishness, slanders, gossip, arrogance, disturbances; 







###### 21 



_I am afraid_ that when I come again my God may humiliate me before you, and I may mourn over many of those who have sinned in the past and not repented of the impurity, sexual immorality, and indecent behavior which they have practiced. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Corinthians 12:1 Or _from_ [^b]: 2 Corinthians 12:7 Lit _beat_ [^c]: 2 Corinthians 12:9 Lit _in_ [^d]: 2 Corinthians 12:10 Or _mistreatment_ [^e]: 2 Corinthians 12:11 Or _super-apostles_ [^f]: 2 Corinthians 12:12 Lit _of the apostle_ [^g]: 2 Corinthians 12:12 Or _confirming miracles_ [^h]: 2 Corinthians 12:12 Or _works of power_ [^i]: 2 Corinthians 12:18 Lit _walk_ [^j]: 2 Corinthians 12:18 Or _by the same Spirit_ [^k]: 2 Corinthians 12:19 Or _have you been thinking_...?
