---
Aliases: [2 Corinthians 13]
previous: ['2 Cor 12']
up: ['2 Corinthians']
---
# 2 Corinthians 13

***








###### 1 



This is the third time that I am coming to you. On the [^a]testimony of two or three witnesses every matter shall be confirmed. 







###### 2 



I have previously said when I was present the second time, and though now absent I say in advance to those who have sinned in the past and to all the rest _as well_, that if I come again I will not spare _anyone_, 







###### 3 



since you are seeking proof of the Christ who speaks in me, who is not weak toward you, but mighty in you. 







###### 4 



For indeed He was crucified because of weakness, yet He lives because of the power of God. For we too are weak [^b]in Him, yet we will live with Him because of the power of God _directed_ toward you. 







###### 5 



Test yourselves _to see_ if you are in the faith; examine yourselves! Or do you not recognize _this about_ yourselves, that Jesus Christ is in you--unless indeed you [^c]fail the test? 







###### 6 



But I expect that you will realize that we ourselves [^d]do not fail the test. 







###### 7 



Now we pray to God that you do nothing wrong; not so that we ourselves may appear approved, but that you may do what is right, though we may [^e]appear unapproved. 







###### 8 



For we cannot do anything against the truth, but _only_ for the truth. 







###### 9 



For we rejoice when we ourselves are weak, but you are strong; this we also pray for, [^f]that you become mature. 







###### 10 



For this reason I am writing these things while absent, so that when present I _need_ not use severity, in accordance with the authority which the Lord gave me for building up and not for tearing down. 







###### 11 



Finally, brothers _and sisters_, [^g]rejoice, mend your ways, be comforted, be like-minded, live in peace; and the God of love and peace will be with you. 







###### 12 



Greet one another with a holy kiss. 







###### 13 



All the [^h]saints greet you. 







###### 14 



The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit, be with you all. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Corinthians 13:1 Lit _mouth_ [^b]: 2 Corinthians 13:4 One early ms _with Him_ [^c]: 2 Corinthians 13:5 Lit _are unapproved_ [^d]: 2 Corinthians 13:6 Lit _are not unapproved_ [^e]: 2 Corinthians 13:7 Lit _be as_ [^f]: 2 Corinthians 13:9 Lit _your maturation_ [^g]: 2 Corinthians 13:11 Or _farewell_ [^h]: 2 Corinthians 13:13 Lit _holy ones_; i.e., God’s people
