---
Aliases: [2 Corinthians 11]
previous: ['2 Cor 10']
up: ['2 Corinthians']
next: ['2 Cor 12']
---
# 2 Corinthians 11

***








###### 1 



I wish that you would bear with me in a little foolishness; but [^a]indeed you are bearing with me. 







###### 2 



For I am jealous for you with a godly jealousy; for I betrothed you to one husband, to present you _as_ a pure virgin to Christ. 







###### 3 



But I am afraid that, as the serpent deceived Eve by his trickery, your minds will be led astray from sincere and pure devotion to Christ. 







###### 4 



For if [^b]one comes and preaches another Jesus whom we have not preached, or you receive a different spirit which you have not received, or a different gospel which you have not accepted, _this_ you tolerate _very_ well! 







###### 5 



For I consider myself not in the least inferior to the [^c]most eminent apostles. 







###### 6 



But even if I am unskilled in speech, yet I am not _so_ in knowledge; in fact, in every way we have made _this_ evident to you in all things. 







###### 7 



Or did I commit a sin by humbling myself so that you might be exalted, because I preached the gospel of God to you without charge? 







###### 8 



I robbed other churches by taking wages _from them_ to serve you; 







###### 9 



and when I was present with you and was in need, I was not a burden to anyone; for when the brothers came from Macedonia they fully supplied my need, and in everything I kept myself from being a burden to you, [^d]and will continue to do so. 







###### 10 



As the truth of Christ is in me, this boasting of mine will not be stopped in the regions of Achaia. 







###### 11 



Why? Because I do not love you? God knows _that I do_! 







###### 12 



But what I am doing I will also _continue to_ do, so that I may eliminate the opportunity from those who want an opportunity to be [^e]regarded just as we are in the matter about which they are boasting. 







###### 13 



For such men are false apostles, deceitful workers, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ. 







###### 14 



No wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light. 







###### 15 



Therefore it is not surprising if his servants also disguise themselves as servants of righteousness, whose end will be according to their deeds. 







###### 16 



Again I say, let no one think me foolish; but if _you do_, receive me even as foolish, so that I also may boast a little. 







###### 17 



What I am saying, I am not saying [^f]as the Lord would, but as in foolishness, in this confidence of boasting. 







###### 18 



Since many boast according to the flesh, I will boast also. 







###### 19 



For you, being _so_ wise, tolerate the foolish gladly. 







###### 20 



For you tolerate it if anyone enslaves you, if anyone devours you, if anyone takes _advantage of_ you, if anyone exalts himself, if anyone hits you in the face. 







###### 21 



To _my_ shame I _must_ say that we have been weak _by comparison_. But in whatever respect anyone _else_ is bold--I am speaking in foolishness--I too am bold. 







###### 22 



Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they [^g]descendants of Abraham? So am I. 







###### 23 



Are they servants of Christ?--I am speaking as if insane--I more so; in far more labors, in far more imprisonments, [^h]beaten times without number, often in _danger of_ death. 







###### 24 



Five times I received from the Jews thirty-nine _lashes_. 







###### 25 



Three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked, a night and a day I have spent _adrift_ at sea. 







###### 26 



_I have been_ on frequent journeys, in dangers from rivers, dangers from robbers, dangers from _my_ countrymen, dangers from the Gentiles, dangers in the city, dangers in the wilderness, dangers at sea, dangers among false brothers; 







###### 27 



_I have been_ in labor and hardship, through many sleepless nights, in hunger and thirst, often without food, in cold and [^i]exposure. 







###### 28 



Apart from _such_ [^j]external things, there is the daily pressure on me _of_ concern for all the churches. 







###### 29 



Who is weak without my being weak? Who is [^k]led into sin [^l]without my intense concern? 







###### 30 



If I have to boast, I will boast of what pertains to my weakness. 







###### 31 



The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, He who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying. 







###### 32 



In Damascus the ethnarch under Aretas the king was guarding the city of the Damascenes in order to seize me, 







###### 33 



and I was let down in a basket through a window [^m]in the wall, and _so_ escaped his hands. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Corinthians 11:1 Or _do indeed bear with me_ [^b]: 2 Corinthians 11:4 Lit _the one who comes preaches_ [^c]: 2 Corinthians 11:5 Or _super-apostles_ [^d]: 2 Corinthians 11:9 Lit _and I will keep_ [^e]: 2 Corinthians 11:12 Lit _found_ [^f]: 2 Corinthians 11:17 Lit _in accordance with the Lord_ [^g]: 2 Corinthians 11:22 Lit _seed_ [^h]: 2 Corinthians 11:23 Lit _exceedingly in blows_ [^i]: 2 Corinthians 11:27 Lit _nakedness_; i.e., lack of clothing [^j]: 2 Corinthians 11:28 Or _the things unmentioned_ [^k]: 2 Corinthians 11:29 Lit _made to stumble_ [^l]: 2 Corinthians 11:29 Lit _and I do not burn_ [^m]: 2 Corinthians 11:33 Lit _through_
