---
Aliases: [1 Kings 13]
previous: ['1 Kgs 12']
up: ['1 Kings']
next: ['1 Kgs 14']
---
# 1 Kings 13

***
















###### 1 







Now behold, there came a man of God from Judah to Bethel by the word (command) of the LORD, while Jeroboam was standing by the altar [which he had built] to burn incense. 















###### 2 







The man cried out against the [idolatrous] altar by the word of the LORD, "O altar, altar, thus says the Lord: 'Behold, a son shall be born to the house of David, [^a]Josiah by name; and on you shall he sacrifice [the bodies of] the priests of the high places who burn incense on you, and human bones shall be burned on you.'" 















###### 3 







And he gave a sign the same day, saying, "This is the sign which the LORD has spoken: 'Behold, the altar shall be split apart and the ashes that are on it shall be poured out.'" 















###### 4 







When the king heard the words which the man of God cried out against the altar in Bethel, Jeroboam put out his hand from the altar, saying, "Seize him!" And his hand which he had put out against him withered, so that he was unable to pull it back to himself. 















###### 5 







The altar also was split apart and the ashes were poured out from the altar in accordance with the sign which the man of God had given by the word of the LORD. 















###### 6 







The king answered and said to the man of God, "Please entreat [the favor of] the LORD your God and pray for me, that my hand may be restored to me." So the man of God entreated the LORD, and the king's hand was restored to him and became as it was before. 















###### 7 







And the king said to the man of God, "Come home with me and refresh yourself, and I will give you a reward." 















###### 8 







But the man of God said to the king, "_Even_ if you were to give me half your house (wealth), I would not go with you, nor would I eat bread or drink water in this place. 















###### 9 







For I was commanded by the word of the LORD, 'You shall not eat bread or drink water, nor shall you return by the way you came.'" 















###### 10 







So he went another way and did not return by the way that he came to Bethel. ## The Disobedient Prophet 















###### 11 







Now there was an old prophet living in Bethel; and his sons came and told him everything that the man of God had done that day in Bethel; they also told their father the words which he had spoken to the king. 















###### 12 







Their father asked them, "Which way did he go?" For his sons had seen which way the man of God who came from Judah had gone. 















###### 13 







He said to his sons, "Saddle the donkey for me." So they saddled the donkey for him and he rode away on it, 















###### 14 







and he went after the man of God. And he found him sitting under an oak (terebinth) tree, and he said to him, "Are you the man of God who came from Judah?" And he said, "I am." 















###### 15 







Then he said to him, "Come home with me and eat bread." 















###### 16 







He said, "I cannot return with you nor go in with you, nor will I eat bread or drink water with you in this place. 















###### 17 







For I was told by the word of the LORD, 'You shall not eat bread nor drink water there, nor shall you return by going the way that you came.'" 















###### 18 







He answered him, "I too am a prophet, as you are; and an angel spoke to me by the word of the LORD, saying, 'Bring him back with you to your house, so that he may eat bread and drink water.'" _But_ he lied to him. 















###### 19 







So the man of God went back with him, and ate bread in his house and drank water. 















###### 20 







Now it happened as they were sitting at the table, that the word of the LORD came to the prophet who had brought him back. 















###### 21 







And he cried out to the man of God who had come from Judah, "Thus says the LORD, 'Because you have disobeyed the word of the LORD and have not kept the commandment which the LORD your God commanded you, 















###### 22 







but have come back and have eaten bread and drunk water in the place of which the LORD said to you, "You shall not eat bread nor drink water"; your body shall not come to the tomb of your fathers (ancestors).'" 















###### 23 







After the prophet of the house had eaten bread and after he had drunk, he saddled the donkey for the prophet whom he had brought back. 















###### 24 







Now when he had gone, a lion met him by the road and killed him, and his body was thrown in the road, with the donkey standing beside it; the lion was also standing beside the body. 















###### 25 







And there were men passing by, and they saw the body thrown in the road, and the lion standing beside the body. So they came and told about it in the city [of Bethel] where the old prophet lived. 















###### 26 







When the prophet who had brought him back from the road heard about it, he said, "It is the man of God who was disobedient to the word of the LORD; therefore the LORD has given him to the lion, which has torn him and killed him, in accordance with the word of the LORD which He spoke to him." 















###### 27 







And he said to his sons, "Saddle the donkey for me." And they saddled it. 















###### 28 







And he went and found the body thrown on the road, and the donkey and the lion standing beside the body; the lion [miraculously] had not eaten the body or attacked the donkey. 















###### 29 







Then the prophet picked up the body of the man of God and laid it on the donkey and brought it back, and he came into the city (Bethel) of the old prophet to mourn and to bury him. 















###### 30 







And he laid the body in his own grave, and they mourned over him, saying, "Alas, my brother!" 















###### 31 







Then after he had buried him, he said to his sons, "When I am dead, bury me in the grave in which the man of God is buried; lay my bones beside his bones. 















###### 32 







For the words which he cried out by the word of the LORD against the altar in Bethel and against all the houses of the high places which are in the cities of Samaria shall certainly come to pass." 















###### 33 







After this event, Jeroboam [still] did not turn from his evil way, but again made priests for the high places from among all the people. He ordained anyone who was willing, so that there would be priests for the high places. 















###### 34 







And this thing (idol worship) became the sin of the house of Jeroboam to blot it out and eliminate it from the face of the earth. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Kings 13:2 Josiah became king about three hundred years later (2 Kin 23:15-20).
