---
Aliases: [1 Kings 16]
previous: ['1 Kgs 15']
up: ['1 Kings']
next: ['1 Kgs 17']
---
# 1 Kings 16

***
















###### 1 







Now the word of the LORD came to Jehu the son of Hanani against Baasha, saying, 















###### 2 







"Because I exalted you [Baasha] from the dust and made you leader over My people Israel, and you walked in the way of Jeroboam and made My people Israel sin, provoking Me to anger with their sins [of idol worship], 















###### 3 







behold, I am going to sweep away Baasha and his household (family), and I will make your house (royal line) like that of Jeroboam the son of Nebat. 















###### 4 







The dogs will eat anyone belonging to Baasha who dies in the city, and the birds of the sky will eat anyone belonging to him who dies in the field." 















###### 5 







Now as for the rest of the acts of Baasha, what he did and his might, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel? ## The Israelite Kings 















###### 6 







Baasha slept with his fathers [in death] and was buried in Tirzah. Elah his son became king in his place. 















###### 7 







Moreover, the word of the LORD came against Baasha and his household through the prophet Jehu the son of Hanani, both for all the evil that Baasha did in the sight of the LORD in provoking Him to anger with the work of his hands (idolatry), in being like the house of Jeroboam, and because he [willingly] destroyed it (the family of Jeroboam). 















###### 8 







In the twenty-sixth year of Asa king of Judah, Elah the son of Baasha became king over Israel in Tirzah, _and reigned_ two years. 















###### 9 







His servant Zimri, commander of half his chariots, conspired against Elah. Now Elah was in Tirzah, getting drunk in the house of Arza, who was in charge of the [king's] household in Tirzah. 















###### 10 







Then Zimri came in and struck and killed Elah in the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah, and became king in his place. 















###### 11 







When he became king, as soon as he sat on his throne, he killed the entire household of Baasha; he did not leave a single male [alive], either of his [^a]relatives or his friends. 















###### 12 







Thus Zimri destroyed the entire household of Baasha, in accordance with the word of the LORD which He spoke against Baasha through Jehu the prophet, 















###### 13 







for all the sins of Baasha and the sins of Elah his son, which they committed, and made Israel commit, provoking the LORD God of Israel to anger with their idols. 















###### 14 







Now as for the rest of the acts of Elah and everything that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel? 















###### 15 







In the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah, Zimri reigned [over Israel] for seven days at Tirzah. Now the troops were camped against Gibbethon, [a city] which belonged to the Philistines, 















###### 16 







and the people who were camped heard it said, "Zimri has conspired and has also struck down the king." So all Israel made Omri, the commander of the army, king over Israel that day in the camp. 















###### 17 







Then Omri went up from Gibbethon, and all Israel with him, and they besieged Tirzah. 















###### 18 







When Zimri saw that the city was taken, he went into the fortress of the king's palace; and _while inside_, he set fire to the king's palace and died, 















###### 19 







because of the sins he had committed, doing evil in the sight of the LORD, by walking in the way of Jeroboam, and because of his sin he caused Israel to sin. 















###### 20 







Now as for the rest of the acts of Zimri, and his [treasonous] conspiracy which he committed, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel? 















###### 21 







Then the people of Israel were divided in half. Half of the people followed Tibni the son of Ginath, to make him king, and the _other_ half followed Omri. 















###### 22 







But the people who followed Omri prevailed over the people who followed Tibni the son of Ginath. So Tibni died and Omri became king. 















###### 23 







In the thirty-first year of Asa king of Judah, Omri became king over Israel _and reigned_ for twelve years. He reigned six years at Tirzah. 















###### 24 







Omri bought the hill Samaria from Shemer for two talents of silver, and he built _a city_ on the hill [and fortified it], and named the city which he built [^b]Samaria, after the owner of the hill, Shemer. 















###### 25 







But Omri did evil in the sight of the LORD, and acted more wickedly than all who _came_ before him. 















###### 26 







He walked in all the ways of Jeroboam the son of Nebat and in his sin, which he made Israel commit, provoking the LORD God of Israel, [to anger] with their idols. 















###### 27 







Now as for the rest of the acts of Omri which he did, and his might which he showed, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel? 















###### 28 







So Omri slept with his fathers [in death] and was buried in Samaria. Ahab his son became king in his place. 















###### 29 







Ahab the son of Omri became king over Israel in the thirty-eighth year of Asa king of Judah, and Ahab the son of Omri reigned over Israel in Samaria for twenty-two years. 















###### 30 







Ahab the son of Omri did evil in the sight of the LORD more than all [the kings] who were before him. 















###### 31 







It came about, as if it had been a trivial thing for Ahab to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, that he married [^c]Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal king of the Sidonians, and went and served Baal and worshiped him. 















###### 32 







So he erected an altar for Baal in the house of Baal which he built in Samaria. 















###### 33 







Ahab also made the Asherah. Ahab did more to provoke the LORD God of Israel than all the kings of Israel who were before him. 















###### 34 







In his days, Hiel the Bethelite rebuilt Jericho. He laid its foundations with the _loss of_ Abiram his firstborn, and set up its gates with the _loss of_ his youngest son Segub, in accordance with the word of the LORD, which He spoke through Joshua the son of Nun. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Kings 16:11 Lit _blood avengers_, referring to relatives who would have the obligation to kill Zimri to avenge Baasha’s death. [^b]: 1 Kings 16:24 Heb _Shomeron_. [^c]: 1 Kings 16:31 Jezebel was the chief priestess of the cult of Baal worship, which dominated the city of Tyre.
