---
Aliases: [Psalms 115]
previous: ['Ps 114']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 116']
---
# Psalms 115

***


###### 1 
Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, But to Your name give glory, Because of Your mercy, Because of Your truth. 

###### 2 
Why should the [^a]Gentiles say, "So where _is_ their God?" 

###### 3 
But our God _is_ in heaven; He does whatever He pleases. 

###### 4 
Their idols _are_ silver and gold, The work of men's hands. 

###### 5 
They have mouths, but they do not speak; Eyes they have, but they do not see; 

###### 6 
They have ears, but they do not hear; Noses they have, but they do not smell; 

###### 7 
They have hands, but they do not handle; Feet they have, but they do not walk; Nor do they mutter through their throat. 

###### 8 
Those who make them are like them; _So is_ everyone who trusts in them. 

###### 9 
O Israel, trust in the Lord; He _is_ their help and their shield. 

###### 10 
O house of Aaron, trust in the Lord; He _is_ their help and their shield. 

###### 11 
You who fear the Lord, trust in the Lord; He _is_ their help and their shield. 

###### 12 
The Lord [^b]has been mindful of _us;_ He will bless us; He will bless the house of Israel; He will bless the house of Aaron. 

###### 13 
He will bless those who fear the Lord, _Both_ small and great. 

###### 14 
May the Lord give you increase more and more, You and your children. 

###### 15 
_May_ you _be_ blessed by the Lord, Who made heaven and earth. 

###### 16 
The heaven, _even_ the heavens, _are_ the Lord's; But the earth He has given to the children of men. 

###### 17 
The dead do not praise the Lord, Nor any who go down into silence. 

###### 18 
But we will bless the Lord From this time forth and forevermore. Praise the Lord!
