---
Aliases: [Psalms 19]
previous: ['Ps 18']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 20']
---
# Psalms 19

***


###### 1 
The heavens declare the glory of God; And the firmament[^a] shows [^b]His handiwork. 

###### 2 
Day unto day utters speech, And night unto night reveals knowledge. 

###### 3 
_There is_ no speech nor language _Where_ their voice is not heard. 

###### 4 
Their [^c]line has gone out through all the earth, And their words to the end of the world. In them He has set a [^d]tabernacle for the sun, 

###### 5 
Which _is_ like a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, _And_ rejoices like a strong man to run its race. 

###### 6 
Its rising _is_ from one end of heaven, And its circuit to the other end; And there is nothing hidden from its heat. 

###### 7 
The law of the Lord _is_ perfect, [^e]converting the soul; The testimony of the Lord _is_ sure, making wise the simple; 

###### 8 
The statutes of the Lord _are_ right, rejoicing the heart; The commandment of the Lord _is_ pure, enlightening the eyes; 

###### 9 
The fear of the Lord _is_ clean, enduring forever; The judgments of the Lord _are_ true _and_ righteous altogether. 

###### 10 
More to be desired _are they_ than gold, Yea, than much fine gold; Sweeter also than honey and the [^f]honeycomb. 

###### 11 
Moreover by them Your servant is warned, _And_ in keeping them _there is_ great reward. 

###### 12 
Who can understand _his_ errors? Cleanse me from secret _faults._ 

###### 13 
Keep back Your servant also from presumptuous _sins;_ Let them not have dominion over me. Then I shall be blameless, And I shall be innocent of [^g]great transgression. 

###### 14 
Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart Be acceptable in Your sight, O Lord, my [^h]strength and my Redeemer. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 19:1 _expanse_ of heaven [^b]: Psalm 19:1 _the work of His hands_ [^c]: Psalm 19:4 LXX, Syr., Vg. _sound;_ Tg. _business_ [^d]: Psalm 19:4 _tent_ [^e]: Psalm 19:7 _restoring_ [^f]: Psalm 19:10 _honey in the combs_ [^g]: Psalm 19:13 Or _much_ [^h]: Psalm 19:14 Lit. _rock_
