---
Aliases: [Psalms 119]
previous: ['Ps 118']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 120']
---
# Psalms 119

***


###### 1 
Blessed _are_ the [^a]undefiled in the way, Who walk in the law of the Lord! 

###### 2 
Blessed _are_ those who keep His testimonies, Who seek Him with the whole heart! 

###### 3 
They also do no iniquity; They walk in His ways. 

###### 4 
You have commanded _us_ To keep Your precepts diligently. 

###### 5 
Oh, that my ways were directed To keep Your statutes! 

###### 6 
Then I would not be ashamed, When I look into all Your commandments. 

###### 7 
I will praise You with uprightness of heart, When I learn Your righteous judgments. 

###### 8 
I will keep Your statutes; Oh, do not forsake me utterly! 

###### 9 
How can a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed according to Your word. 

###### 10 
With my whole heart I have sought You; Oh, let me not wander from Your commandments! 

###### 11 
Your word I have hidden in my heart, That I might not sin against You. 

###### 12 
Blessed _are_ You, O Lord! Teach me Your statutes. 

###### 13 
With my lips I have declared All the judgments of Your mouth. 

###### 14 
I have rejoiced in the way of Your testimonies, As _much as_ in all riches. 

###### 15 
I will meditate on Your precepts, And [^b]contemplate Your ways. 

###### 16 
I will delight myself in Your statutes; I will not forget Your word. 

###### 17 
Deal bountifully with Your servant, _That_ I may live and keep Your word. 

###### 18 
Open my eyes, that I may see Wondrous things from Your law. 

###### 19 
I _am_ a stranger in the earth; Do not hide Your commandments from me. 

###### 20 
My soul [^c]breaks with longing For Your judgments at all times. 

###### 21 
You rebuke the proud--the cursed, Who stray from Your commandments. 

###### 22 
Remove from me reproach and contempt, For I have kept Your testimonies. 

###### 23 
Princes also sit _and_ speak against me, _But_ Your servant meditates on Your statutes. 

###### 24 
Your testimonies also _are_ my delight _And_ my counselors. 

###### 25 
My soul clings to the dust; Revive me according to Your word. 

###### 26 
I have declared my ways, and You answered me; Teach me Your statutes. 

###### 27 
Make me understand the way of Your precepts; So shall I meditate on Your wonderful works. 

###### 28 
My soul [^d]melts from [^e]heaviness; Strengthen me according to Your word. 

###### 29 
Remove from me the way of lying, And grant me Your law graciously. 

###### 30 
I have chosen the way of truth; Your judgments I have laid _before me._ 

###### 31 
I cling to Your testimonies; O Lord, do not put me to shame! 

###### 32 
I will run the course of Your commandments, For You shall enlarge my heart. 

###### 33 
Teach me, O Lord, the way of Your statutes, And I shall keep it _to_ the end. 

###### 34 
Give me understanding, and I shall keep Your law; Indeed, I shall observe it with _my_ whole heart. 

###### 35 
Make me walk in the path of Your commandments, For I delight in it. 

###### 36 
[^f]Incline my heart to Your testimonies, And not to covetousness. 

###### 37 
Turn[^g] away my eyes from looking at worthless things, _And_ revive me in [^h]Your way. 

###### 38 
Establish Your word to Your servant, Who _is devoted_ to fearing You. 

###### 39 
Turn away my reproach which I dread, For Your judgments _are_ good. 

###### 40 
Behold, I long for Your precepts; Revive me in Your righteousness. 

###### 41 
Let Your mercies come also to me, O Lord-- Your salvation according to Your word. 

###### 42 
So shall I have an answer for him who [^i]reproaches me, For I trust in Your word. 

###### 43 
And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, For I have hoped in Your ordinances. 

###### 44 
So shall I keep Your law continually, Forever and ever. 

###### 45 
And I will walk [^j]at liberty, For I seek Your precepts. 

###### 46 
I will speak of Your testimonies also before kings, And will not be ashamed. 

###### 47 
And I will delight myself in Your commandments, Which I love. 

###### 48 
My hands also I will lift up to Your commandments, Which I love, And I will meditate on Your statutes. 

###### 49 
Remember the word to Your servant, Upon which You have caused me to hope. 

###### 50 
This _is_ my comfort in my affliction, For Your word has given me life. 

###### 51 
The proud have me in great derision, _Yet_ I do not turn aside from Your law. 

###### 52 
I remembered Your judgments of old, O Lord, And have comforted myself. 

###### 53 
Indignation has taken hold of me Because of the wicked, who forsake Your law. 

###### 54 
Your statutes have been my songs In the house of my pilgrimage. 

###### 55 
I remember Your name in the night, O Lord, And I keep Your law. 

###### 56 
This has become mine, Because I kept Your precepts. 

###### 57 
_You are_ my portion, O Lord; I have said that I would keep Your words. 

###### 58 
I entreated Your favor with _my_ whole heart; Be merciful to me according to Your word. 

###### 59 
I thought about my ways, And turned my feet to Your testimonies. 

###### 60 
I made haste, and did not delay To keep Your commandments. 

###### 61 
The cords of the wicked have bound me, _But_ I have not forgotten Your law. 

###### 62 
At midnight I will rise to give thanks to You, Because of Your righteous judgments. 

###### 63 
I _am_ a companion of all who fear You, And of those who keep Your precepts. 

###### 64 
The earth, O Lord, is full of Your mercy; Teach me Your statutes. 

###### 65 
You have dealt well with Your servant, O Lord, according to Your word. 

###### 66 
Teach me good judgment and knowledge, For I believe Your commandments. 

###### 67 
Before I was afflicted I went astray, But now I keep Your word. 

###### 68 
You _are_ good, and do good; Teach me Your statutes. 

###### 69 
The proud have forged[^k] a lie against me, _But_ I will keep Your precepts with _my_ whole heart. 

###### 70 
Their heart is [^l]as fat as grease, _But_ I delight in Your law. 

###### 71 
_It is_ good for me that I have been afflicted, That I may learn Your statutes. 

###### 72 
The law of Your mouth _is_ better to me Than thousands of _coins of_ gold and silver. 

###### 73 
Your hands have made me and fashioned me; Give me understanding, that I may learn Your commandments. 

###### 74 
Those who fear You will be glad when they see me, Because I have hoped in Your word. 

###### 75 
I know, O Lord, that Your judgments _are_ [^m]right, And _that_ in faithfulness You have afflicted me. 

###### 76 
Let, I pray, Your merciful kindness be for my comfort, According to Your word to Your servant. 

###### 77 
Let Your tender mercies come to me, that I may live; For Your law _is_ my delight. 

###### 78 
Let the proud be ashamed, For they treated me wrongfully with falsehood; _But_ I will meditate on Your precepts. 

###### 79 
Let those who fear You turn to me, Those who know Your testimonies. 

###### 80 
Let my heart be blameless regarding Your statutes, That I may not be ashamed. 

###### 81 
My soul faints for Your salvation, But I hope in Your word. 

###### 82 
My eyes fail _from searching_ Your word, Saying, "When will You comfort me?" 

###### 83 
For I have become like a wineskin in smoke, _Yet_ I do not forget Your statutes. 

###### 84 
How many _are_ the days of Your servant? When will You execute judgment on those who persecute me? 

###### 85 
The proud have dug pits for me, Which _is_ not according to Your law. 

###### 86 
All Your commandments _are_ faithful; They persecute me wrongfully; Help me! 

###### 87 
They almost made an end of me on earth, But I did not forsake Your precepts. 

###### 88 
Revive me according to Your lovingkindness, So that I may keep the testimony of Your mouth. 

###### 89 
Forever, O Lord, Your word [^n]is settled in heaven. 

###### 90 
Your faithfulness _endures_ to all generations; You established the earth, and it [^o]abides. 

###### 91 
They continue this day according to Your ordinances, For all _are_ Your servants. 

###### 92 
Unless Your law _had been_ my delight, I would then have perished in my affliction. 

###### 93 
I will never forget Your precepts, For by them You have given me life. 

###### 94 
I _am_ Yours, save me; For I have sought Your precepts. 

###### 95 
The wicked wait for me to destroy me, _But_ I will [^p]consider Your testimonies. 

###### 96 
I have seen the consummation of all perfection, _But_ Your commandment _is_ exceedingly broad. 

###### 97 
Oh, how I love Your law! It _is_ my meditation all the day. 

###### 98 
You, through Your commandments, make me wiser than my enemies; For they _are_ ever with me. 

###### 99 
I have more understanding than all my teachers, For Your testimonies _are_ my meditation. 

###### 100 
I understand more than the [^q]ancients, Because I keep Your precepts. 

###### 101 
I have restrained my feet from every evil way, That I may keep Your word. 

###### 102 
I have not departed from Your judgments, For You Yourself have taught me. 

###### 103 
How sweet are Your words to my taste, _Sweeter_ than honey to my mouth! 

###### 104 
Through Your precepts I get understanding; Therefore I hate every false way. 

###### 105 
Your word _is_ a lamp to my feet And a light to my path. 

###### 106 
I have sworn and confirmed That I will keep Your righteous judgments. 

###### 107 
I am afflicted very much; Revive me, O Lord, according to Your word. 

###### 108 
Accept, I pray, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O Lord, And teach me Your judgments. 

###### 109 
My life _is_ continually [^r]in my hand, Yet I do not forget Your law. 

###### 110 
The wicked have laid a snare for me, Yet I have not strayed from Your precepts. 

###### 111 
Your testimonies I have taken as a [^s]heritage forever, For they _are_ the rejoicing of my heart. 

###### 112 
I have inclined my heart to perform Your statutes Forever, to the very end. 

###### 113 
I hate the [^t]double-minded, But I love Your law. 

###### 114 
You _are_ my hiding place and my shield; I hope in Your word. 

###### 115 
Depart from me, you evildoers, For I will keep the commandments of my God! 

###### 116 
Uphold me according to Your word, that I may live; And do not let me be ashamed of my hope. 

###### 117 
[^u]Hold me up, and I shall be safe, And I shall observe Your statutes continually. 

###### 118 
You reject all those who stray from Your statutes, For their deceit _is_ falsehood. 

###### 119 
You [^v]put away all the wicked of the earth _like_ [^w]dross; Therefore I love Your testimonies. 

###### 120 
My flesh trembles for fear of You, And I am afraid of Your judgments. 

###### 121 
I have done justice and righteousness; Do not leave me to my oppressors. 

###### 122 
Be surety[^x] for Your servant for good; Do not let the proud oppress me. 

###### 123 
My eyes fail _from seeking_ Your salvation And Your righteous word. 

###### 124 
Deal with Your servant according to Your mercy, And teach me Your statutes. 

###### 125 
I _am_ Your servant; Give me understanding, That I may know Your testimonies. 

###### 126 
_It is_ time for _You_ to act, O Lord, _For_ they have [^y]regarded Your law as void. 

###### 127 
Therefore I love Your commandments More than gold, yes, than fine gold! 

###### 128 
Therefore all _Your_ precepts _concerning_ all _things_ I consider _to be_ right; I hate every false way. 

###### 129 
Your testimonies are wonderful; Therefore my soul keeps them. 

###### 130 
The entrance of Your words gives light; It gives understanding to the simple. 

###### 131 
I opened my mouth and panted, For I longed for Your commandments. 

###### 132 
Look upon me and be merciful to me, As Your custom _is_ toward those who love Your name. 

###### 133 
Direct my steps by Your word, And let no iniquity have dominion over me. 

###### 134 
Redeem me from the oppression of man, That I may keep Your precepts. 

###### 135 
Make Your face shine upon Your servant, And teach me Your statutes. 

###### 136 
Rivers of water run down from my eyes, Because _men_ do not keep Your law. 

###### 137 
Righteous _are_ You, O Lord, And upright _are_ Your judgments. 

###### 138 
Your testimonies, _which_ You have commanded, _Are_ righteous and very faithful. 

###### 139 
My zeal has [^z]consumed me, Because my enemies have forgotten Your words. 

###### 140 
Your word _is_ very [^aa]pure; Therefore Your servant loves it. 

###### 141 
I _am_ small and despised, _Yet_ I do not forget Your precepts. 

###### 142 
Your righteousness _is_ an everlasting righteousness, And Your law _is_ truth. 

###### 143 
Trouble and anguish have [^ab]overtaken me, _Yet_ Your commandments _are_ my delights. 

###### 144 
The righteousness of Your testimonies _is_ everlasting; Give me understanding, and I shall live. 

###### 145 
I cry out with _my_ whole heart; Hear me, O Lord! I will keep Your statutes. 

###### 146 
I cry out to You; Save me, and I will keep Your testimonies. 

###### 147 
I rise before the dawning of the morning, And cry for help; I hope in Your word. 

###### 148 
My eyes are awake through the _night_ watches, That I may meditate on Your word. 

###### 149 
Hear my voice according to Your lovingkindness; O Lord, revive me according to Your justice. 

###### 150 
They draw near who follow after wickedness; They are far from Your law. 

###### 151 
You _are_ near, O Lord, And all Your commandments _are_ truth. 

###### 152 
Concerning Your testimonies, I have known of old that You have founded them forever. 

###### 153 
Consider my affliction and deliver me, For I do not forget Your law. 

###### 154 
Plead my cause and redeem me; Revive me according to Your word. 

###### 155 
Salvation _is_ far from the wicked, For they do not seek Your statutes. 

###### 156 
[^ac]Great _are_ Your tender mercies, O Lord; Revive me according to Your judgments. 

###### 157 
Many _are_ my persecutors and my enemies, _Yet_ I do not turn from Your testimonies. 

###### 158 
I see the treacherous, and am disgusted, Because they do not keep Your word. 

###### 159 
Consider how I love Your precepts; Revive me, O Lord, according to Your lovingkindness. 

###### 160 
The entirety of Your word _is_ truth, And every one of Your righteous judgments _endures_ forever. 

###### 161 
Princes persecute me without a cause, But my heart stands in awe of Your word. 

###### 162 
I rejoice at Your word As one who finds great treasure. 

###### 163 
I hate and abhor lying, _But_ I love Your law. 

###### 164 
Seven times a day I praise You, Because of Your righteous judgments. 

###### 165 
Great peace have those who love Your law, And [^ad]nothing causes them to stumble. 

###### 166 
Lord, I hope for Your salvation, And I do Your commandments. 

###### 167 
My soul keeps Your testimonies, And I love them exceedingly. 

###### 168 
I keep Your precepts and Your testimonies, For all my ways _are_ before You. 

###### 169 
Let my cry come before You, O Lord; Give me understanding according to Your word. 

###### 170 
Let my [^ae]supplication come before You; Deliver me according to Your word. 

###### 171 
My lips shall utter praise, For You teach me Your statutes. 

###### 172 
My tongue shall speak of Your word, For all Your commandments _are_ righteousness. 

###### 173 
Let Your hand become my help, For I have chosen Your precepts. 

###### 174 
I long for Your salvation, O Lord, And Your law _is_ my delight. 

###### 175 
Let my soul live, and it shall praise You; And let Your judgments help me. 

###### 176 
I have gone astray like a lost sheep; Seek Your servant, For I do not forget Your commandments.
