---
Aliases: [Psalms 139]
previous: ['Ps 138']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 140']
---
# Psalms 139

***


###### 1 
O Lord, You have searched me and known _me._ 

###### 2 
You know my sitting down and my rising up; You understand my thought afar off. 

###### 3 
You [^a]comprehend my path and my lying down, And are acquainted with all my ways. 

###### 4 
For _there is_ not a word on my tongue, _But_ behold, O Lord, You know it altogether. 

###### 5 
You have [^b]hedged me behind and before, And laid Your hand upon me. 

###### 6 
_Such_ knowledge _is_ too wonderful for me; It is high, I cannot _attain_ it. 

###### 7 
Where can I go from Your Spirit? Or where can I flee from Your presence? 

###### 8 
If I ascend into heaven, You _are_ there; If I make my bed in [^c]hell, behold, You _are there._ 

###### 9 
_If_ I take the wings of the morning, _And_ dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, 

###### 10 
Even there Your hand shall lead me, And Your right hand shall hold me. 

###### 11 
If I say, "Surely the darkness shall [^d]fall on me," Even the night shall be light about me; 

###### 12 
Indeed, the darkness [^e]shall not hide from You, But the night shines as the day; The darkness and the light _are_ both alike _to You._ 

###### 13 
For You formed my inward parts; You [^f]covered me in my mother's womb. 

###### 14 
I will praise You, for [^g]I am fearfully _and_ wonderfully made; Marvelous are Your works, And _that_ my soul knows very well. 

###### 15 
My [^h]frame was not hidden from You, When I was made in secret, _And_ skillfully wrought in the lowest parts of the earth. 

###### 16 
Your eyes saw my substance, being yet unformed. And in Your book they all were written, The days fashioned for me, When _as yet there were_ none of them. 

###### 17 
How precious also are Your thoughts to me, O God! How great is the sum of them! 

###### 18 
_If_ I should count them, they would be more in number than the sand; When I awake, I am still with You. 

###### 19 
Oh, that You would slay the wicked, O God! Depart from me, therefore, you [^i]bloodthirsty men. 

###### 20 
For they speak against You wickedly; [^j]Your enemies take _Your name_ in vain. 

###### 21 
Do I not hate them, O Lord, who hate You? And do I not loathe those who rise up against You? 

###### 22 
I hate them with [^k]perfect hatred; I count them my enemies. 

###### 23 
Search me, O God, and know my heart; Try me, and know my anxieties; 

###### 24 
And see if _there is any_ wicked way in me, And lead me in the way everlasting.
