---
Aliases: [Psalms 147]
previous: ['Ps 146']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 148']
---
# Psalms 147

***


###### 1 
Praise[^a] the Lord! For _it is_ good to sing praises to our God; For _it is_ pleasant, _and_ praise is beautiful. 

###### 2 
The Lord builds up Jerusalem; He gathers together the outcasts of Israel. 

###### 3 
He heals the brokenhearted And binds up their [^b]wounds. 

###### 4 
He counts the number of the stars; He calls them all by name. 

###### 5 
Great _is_ our Lord, and mighty in power; His understanding _is_ infinite. 

###### 6 
The Lord lifts up the humble; He casts the wicked down to the ground. 

###### 7 
Sing to the Lord with thanksgiving; Sing praises on the harp to our God, 

###### 8 
Who covers the heavens with clouds, Who prepares rain for the earth, Who makes grass to grow on the mountains. 

###### 9 
He gives to the beast its food, _And_ to the young ravens that cry. 

###### 10 
He does not delight in the strength of the horse; He takes no pleasure in the legs of a man. 

###### 11 
The Lord takes pleasure in those who fear Him, In those who hope in His mercy. 

###### 12 
Praise the Lord, O Jerusalem! Praise your God, O Zion! 

###### 13 
For He has strengthened the bars of your gates; He has blessed your children within you. 

###### 14 
He makes peace _in_ your borders, _And_ fills you with [^c]the finest wheat. 

###### 15 
He sends out His command _to the_ earth; His word runs very swiftly. 

###### 16 
He gives snow like wool; He scatters the frost like ashes; 

###### 17 
He casts out His hail like [^d]morsels; Who can stand before His cold? 

###### 18 
He sends out His word and melts them; He causes His wind to blow, _and_ the waters flow. 

###### 19 
He declares His word to Jacob, His statutes and His judgments to Israel. 

###### 20 
He has not dealt thus with any nation; And _as for His_ judgments, they have not known them. [^e]Praise the Lord!
