---
Aliases: [Psalms 11]
previous: ['Ps 10']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 12']
---
# Psalms 11

***


###### 1 
In the Lord I put my trust; How can you say to my soul, "Flee _as_ a bird to your mountain"? 

###### 2 
For look! The wicked bend _their_ bow, They make ready their arrow on the string, That they may shoot [^a]secretly at the upright in heart. 

###### 3 
If the foundations are destroyed, What can the righteous do? 

###### 4 
The Lord _is_ in His holy temple, The Lord's throne _is_ in heaven; His eyes behold, His eyelids test the sons of men. 

###### 5 
The Lord tests the righteous, But the wicked and the one who loves violence His soul hates. 

###### 6 
Upon the wicked He will rain coals; Fire and brimstone and a burning wind _Shall be_ [^b]the portion of their cup. 

###### 7 
For the Lord _is_ righteous, He loves righteousness; [^c]His countenance beholds the upright. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 11:2 Lit. _in darkness_ [^b]: Psalm 11:6 Their allotted portion or serving [^c]: Psalm 11:7 Or _The upright beholds His countenance_
