---
Aliases: [Psalms 103]
previous: ['Ps 102']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 104']
---
# Psalms 103

***


###### 1 
Bless the Lord, O my soul; And all that is within me, _bless_ His holy name! 

###### 2 
Bless the Lord, O my soul, And forget not all His benefits: 

###### 3 
Who forgives all your iniquities, Who heals all your diseases, 

###### 4 
Who redeems your life from destruction, Who crowns you with lovingkindness and tender mercies, 

###### 5 
Who satisfies your mouth with good _things,_ _So that_ your youth is renewed like the eagle's. 

###### 6 
The Lord executes righteousness And justice for all who are oppressed. 

###### 7 
He made known His ways to Moses, His acts to the children of Israel. 

###### 8 
The Lord _is_ merciful and gracious, Slow to anger, and abounding in mercy. 

###### 9 
He will not always strive _with us,_ Nor will He keep _His anger_ forever. 

###### 10 
He has not dealt with us according to our sins, Nor punished us according to our iniquities. 

###### 11 
For as the heavens are high above the earth, _So_ great is His mercy toward those who fear Him; 

###### 12 
As far as the east is from the west, _So_ far has He removed our transgressions from us. 

###### 13 
As a father pities _his_ children, _So_ the Lord pities those who fear Him. 

###### 14 
For He [^a]knows our frame; He remembers that we _are_ dust. 

###### 15 
_As for_ man, his days _are_ like grass; As a flower of the field, so he flourishes. 

###### 16 
For the wind passes over it, and it is [^b]gone, And its place remembers it no more. 

###### 17 
But the mercy of the Lord _is_ from everlasting to everlasting On those who fear Him, And His righteousness to children's children, 

###### 18 
To such as keep His covenant, And to those who remember His commandments to do them. 

###### 19 
The Lord has established His throne in heaven, And His kingdom rules over all. 

###### 20 
Bless the Lord, you His angels, Who excel in strength, who do His word, Heeding the voice of His word. 

###### 21 
Bless the Lord, all _you_ His hosts, _You_ [^c]ministers of His, who do His pleasure. 

###### 22 
Bless the Lord, all His works, In all places of His dominion. Bless the Lord, O my soul! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 103:14 Understands our constitution [^b]: Psalm 103:16 _not_ [^c]: Psalm 103:21 _servants_
