---
Aliases: [Psalms 116]
previous: ['Ps 115']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 117']
---
# Psalms 116

***


###### 1 
I love the Lord, because He has heard My voice _and_ my supplications. 

###### 2 
Because He has inclined His ear to me, Therefore I will call _upon Him_ as long as I live. 

###### 3 
The pains of death surrounded me, And the pangs of Sheol laid hold of me; I found trouble and sorrow. 

###### 4 
Then I called upon the name of the Lord: "O Lord, I implore You, deliver my soul!" 

###### 5 
Gracious _is_ the Lord, and righteous; Yes, our God _is_ merciful. 

###### 6 
The Lord preserves the simple; I was brought low, and He saved me. 

###### 7 
Return to your rest, O my soul, For the Lord has dealt bountifully with you. 

###### 8 
For You have delivered my soul from death, My eyes from tears, _And_ my feet from falling. 

###### 9 
I will walk before the Lord In the land of the living. 

###### 10 
I believed, therefore I spoke, "I am greatly afflicted." 

###### 11 
I said in my haste, "All men _are_ liars." 

###### 12 
What shall I render to the Lord _For_ all His benefits toward me? 

###### 13 
I will take up the cup of salvation, And call upon the name of the Lord. 

###### 14 
I will pay my vows to the Lord Now in the presence of all His people. 

###### 15 
Precious in the sight of the Lord _Is_ the death of His saints. 

###### 16 
O Lord, truly I _am_ Your servant; I _am_ Your servant, the son of Your maidservant; You have loosed my bonds. 

###### 17 
I will offer to You the sacrifice of thanksgiving, And will call upon the name of the Lord. 

###### 18 
I will pay my vows to the Lord Now in the presence of all His people, 

###### 19 
In the courts of the Lord's house, In the midst of you, O Jerusalem. Praise the Lord!
