---
Aliases: [Psalms 132]
previous: ['Ps 131']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 133']
---
# Psalms 132

***


###### 1 
Lord, remember David _And_ all his afflictions; 

###### 2 
How he swore to the Lord, _And_ vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob: 

###### 3 
"Surely I will not go into the chamber of my house, Or go up to the comfort of my bed; 

###### 4 
I will not give sleep to my eyes _Or_ slumber to my eyelids, 

###### 5 
Until I find a place for the Lord, A dwelling place for the Mighty One of Jacob." 

###### 6 
Behold, we heard of it in Ephrathah; We found it in the fields of [^a]the woods. 

###### 7 
Let us go into His tabernacle; Let us worship at His footstool. 

###### 8 
Arise, O Lord, to Your resting place, You and the ark of Your strength. 

###### 9 
Let Your priests be clothed with righteousness, And let Your saints shout for joy. 

###### 10 
For Your servant David's sake, Do not turn away the face of Your [^b]Anointed. 

###### 11 
The Lord has sworn _in_ truth to David; He will not turn from it: "I will set upon your throne the [^c]fruit of your body. 

###### 12 
If your sons will keep My covenant And My testimony which I shall teach them, Their sons also shall sit upon your throne forevermore." 

###### 13 
For the Lord has chosen Zion; He has desired _it_ for His [^d]dwelling place: 

###### 14 
"This _is_ My resting place forever; Here I will dwell, for I have desired it. 

###### 15 
I will abundantly bless her [^e]provision; I will satisfy her poor with bread. 

###### 16 
I will also clothe her priests with salvation, And her saints shall shout aloud for joy. 

###### 17 
There I will make the [^f]horn of David grow; I will prepare a lamp for My [^g]Anointed. 

###### 18 
His enemies I will clothe with shame, But upon Himself His crown shall flourish." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 132:6 Heb. _Jaar,_ lit. _Woods_ [^b]: Psalm 132:10 Commissioned One, Heb. _Messiah_ [^c]: Psalm 132:11 _offspring_ [^d]: Psalm 132:13 _home_ [^e]: Psalm 132:15 _supply of food_ [^f]: Psalm 132:17 Government [^g]: Psalm 132:17 Heb. _Messiah_
