---
Aliases: [Psalms 142]
previous: ['Ps 141']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 143']
---
# Psalms 142

***


###### 1 
I cry out to the Lord with my voice; With my voice to the Lord I make my supplication. 

###### 2 
I pour out my complaint before Him; I declare before Him my trouble. 

###### 3 
When my spirit [^b]was overwhelmed within me, Then You knew my path. In the way in which I walk They have secretly set a snare for me. 

###### 4 
Look on _my_ right hand and see, For _there is_ no one who acknowledges me; Refuge has failed me; No one cares for my soul. 

###### 5 
I cried out to You, O Lord: I said, "You _are_ my refuge, My portion in the land of the living. 

###### 6 
[^c]Attend to my cry, For I am brought very low; Deliver me from my persecutors, For they are stronger than I. 

###### 7 
Bring my soul out of prison, That I may praise Your name; The righteous shall surround me, For You shall deal bountifully with me." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 142:1 Heb. _Maschil_ [^b]: Psalm 142:3 Lit. _fainted_ [^c]: Psalm 142:6 _Give heed_
