---
Aliases: [Psalms 104]
previous: ['Ps 103']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 105']
---
# Psalms 104

***


###### 1 
Bless the Lord, O my soul! O Lord my God, You are very great: You are clothed with honor and majesty, 

###### 2 
Who cover _Yourself_ with light as _with_ a garment, Who stretch out the heavens like a curtain. 

###### 3 
He lays the beams of His upper chambers in the waters, Who makes the clouds His chariot, Who walks on the wings of the wind, 

###### 4 
Who makes His angels spirits, His [^a]ministers a flame of fire. 

###### 5 
_You who_ [^b]laid the foundations of the earth, So _that_ it should not be moved forever, 

###### 6 
You covered it with the deep as _with_ a garment; The waters stood above the mountains. 

###### 7 
At Your rebuke they fled; At the voice of Your thunder they hastened away. 

###### 8 
[^c]They went up over the mountains; They went down into the valleys, To the place which You founded for them. 

###### 9 
You have set a boundary that they may not pass over, That they may not return to cover the earth. 

###### 10 
He sends the springs into the valleys; They flow among the hills. 

###### 11 
They give drink to every beast of the field; The wild donkeys quench their thirst. 

###### 12 
By them the birds of the heavens have their home; They sing among the branches. 

###### 13 
He waters the hills from His upper chambers; The earth is satisfied with the fruit of Your works. 

###### 14 
He causes the grass to grow for the cattle, And vegetation for the service of man, That he may bring forth food from the earth, 

###### 15 
And wine _that_ makes glad the heart of man, Oil to make _his_ face shine, And bread _which_ strengthens man's heart. 

###### 16 
The trees of the Lord are full _of sap,_ The cedars of Lebanon which He planted, 

###### 17 
Where the birds make their nests; The stork has her home in the fir trees. 

###### 18 
The high hills _are_ for the wild goats; The cliffs are a refuge for the rock[^d] badgers. 

###### 19 
He appointed the moon for seasons; The sun knows its going down. 

###### 20 
You make darkness, and it is night, In which all the beasts of the forest creep about. 

###### 21 
The young lions roar after their prey, And seek their food from God. 

###### 22 
_When_ the sun rises, they gather together And lie down in their dens. 

###### 23 
Man goes out to his work And to his labor until the evening. 

###### 24 
O Lord, how manifold are Your works! In wisdom You have made them all. The earth is full of Your possessions-- 

###### 25 
This great and wide sea, In which _are_ innumerable teeming things, Living things both small and great. 

###### 26 
There the ships sail about; _There is_ that Leviathan[^e] Which You have [^f]made to play there. 

###### 27 
These all wait for You, That You may give _them_ their food in due season. 

###### 28 
_What_ You give them they gather in; You open Your hand, they are filled with good. 

###### 29 
You hide Your face, they are troubled; You take away their breath, they die and return to their dust. 

###### 30 
You send forth Your Spirit, they are created; And You renew the face of the earth. 

###### 31 
May the glory of the Lord endure forever; May the Lord rejoice in His works. 

###### 32 
He looks on the earth, and it trembles; He touches the hills, and they smoke. 

###### 33 
I will sing to the Lord as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have my being. 

###### 34 
May my meditation be sweet to Him; I will be glad in the Lord. 

###### 35 
May sinners be consumed from the earth, And the wicked be no more. Bless the Lord, O my soul! [^g]Praise the Lord! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 104:4 _servants_ [^b]: Psalm 104:5 Lit. _founded the earth upon her bases_ [^c]: Psalm 104:8 Or _The mountains rose up; The valleys sank down_ [^d]: Psalm 104:18 _rock hyraxes_ [^e]: Psalm 104:26 A large sea creature of unknown identity [^f]: Psalm 104:26 Lit. _formed_ [^g]: Psalm 104:35 Heb. _Hallelujah_
