---
Aliases: [Psalms 12]
previous: ['Ps 11']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 13']
---
# Psalms 12

***


###### 1 
Help,[^b] Lord, for the godly man ceases! For the faithful disappear from among the sons of men. 

###### 2 
They speak idly everyone with his neighbor; _With_ flattering lips _and_ [^c]a double heart they speak. 

###### 3 
May the Lord [^d]cut off all flattering lips, _And_ the tongue that speaks [^e]proud things, 

###### 4 
Who have said, "With our tongue we will prevail; Our lips _are_ our own; Who _is_ lord over us?" 

###### 5 
"For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, Now I will arise," says the Lord; "I will set _him_ in the safety for which he yearns." 

###### 6 
The words of the Lord _are_ pure words, _Like_ silver tried in a furnace of earth, Purified seven times. 

###### 7 
You shall keep them, O Lord, You shall preserve them from this generation forever. 

###### 8 
The wicked prowl on every side, When vileness is exalted among the sons of men. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 12:1 Heb. _sheminith_ [^b]: Psalm 12:1 _Save_ [^c]: Psalm 12:2 An inconsistent mind [^d]: Psalm 12:3 _destroy_ [^e]: Psalm 12:3 _great_
