---
Aliases: [Psalms 144]
previous: ['Ps 143']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 145']
---
# Psalms 144

***


###### 1 
Blessed _be_ the Lord my Rock, Who trains my hands for war, _And_ my fingers for battle-- 

###### 2 
My lovingkindness and my fortress, My high tower and my deliverer, My shield and _the One_ in whom I take refuge, Who subdues [^a]my people under me. 

###### 3 
Lord, what _is_ man, that You take knowledge of him? _Or_ the son of man, that You are mindful of him? 

###### 4 
Man is like a breath; His days _are_ like a passing shadow. 

###### 5 
Bow down Your heavens, O Lord, and come down; Touch the mountains, and they shall smoke. 

###### 6 
Flash forth lightning and scatter them; Shoot out Your arrows and destroy them. 

###### 7 
Stretch out Your hand from above; Rescue me and deliver me out of great waters, From the hand of foreigners, 

###### 8 
Whose mouth speaks [^b]lying words, And whose right hand _is_ a right hand of falsehood. 

###### 9 
I will sing a new song to You, O God; On a harp of ten strings I will sing praises to You, 

###### 10 
_The One_ who gives [^c]salvation to kings, Who delivers David His servant From the deadly sword. 

###### 11 
Rescue me and deliver me from the hand of foreigners, Whose mouth speaks lying words, And whose right hand _is_ a right hand of falsehood-- 

###### 12 
That our sons _may be_ as plants grown up in their youth; _That_ our daughters _may be_ as [^d]pillars, Sculptured in palace style; 

###### 13 
_That_ our barns _may be_ full, Supplying all kinds of produce; _That_ our sheep may bring forth thousands And ten thousands in our fields; 

###### 14 
_That_ our oxen _may be_ well laden; _That there be_ no [^e]breaking in or going out; _That there be_ no outcry in our streets. 

###### 15 
Happy _are_ the people who are in such a state; Happy _are_ the people whose God _is_ the Lord! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 144:2 So with MT, LXX, Vg.; Syr., Tg. _the peoples_ (cf. [18:47]) [^b]: Psalm 144:8 _empty_ or _worthless_ [^c]: Psalm 144:10 _deliverance_ [^d]: Psalm 144:12 _corner pillars_ [^e]: Psalm 144:14 Lit. _breach_
