---
Aliases: [Psalms 16]
previous: ['Ps 15']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 17']
---
# Psalms 16

***


###### 1 
Preserve[^a] me, O God, for in You I put my trust. 

###### 2 
_O my soul,_ you have said to the Lord, "You _are_ my Lord, My goodness is nothing apart from You." 

###### 3 
As for the saints who _are_ on the earth, "They are the excellent ones, in whom is all my delight." 

###### 4 
Their sorrows shall be multiplied who hasten _after_ another _god;_ Their drink offerings of blood I will not offer, Nor take up their names on my lips. 

###### 5 
O Lord, _You are_ the portion of my inheritance and my cup; You [^b]maintain my lot. 

###### 6 
The lines have fallen to me in pleasant _places;_ Yes, I have a good inheritance. 

###### 7 
I will bless the Lord who has given me counsel; My [^c]heart also instructs me in the night seasons. 

###### 8 
I have set the Lord always before me; Because _He is_ at my right hand I shall not be moved. 

###### 9 
Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoices; My flesh also will [^d]rest in hope. 

###### 10 
For You will not leave my soul in [^e]Sheol, Nor will You allow Your Holy One to [^f]see corruption. 

###### 11 
You will show me the path of life; In Your presence _is_ fullness of joy; At Your right hand _are_ pleasures forevermore. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 16:1 _Watch over_ [^b]: Psalm 16:5 Lit. _uphold_ [^c]: Psalm 16:7 Mind, lit. _kidneys_ [^d]: Psalm 16:9 Or _dwell securely_ [^e]: Psalm 16:10 The abode of the dead [^f]: Psalm 16:10 _undergo_
