---
Aliases: [Psalms 143]
previous: ['Ps 142']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 144']
---
# Psalms 143

***


###### 1 
Hear my prayer, O Lord, Give ear to my supplications! In Your faithfulness answer me, _And_ in Your righteousness. 

###### 2 
Do not enter into judgment with Your servant, For in Your sight no one living is righteous. 

###### 3 
For the enemy has persecuted my soul; He has crushed my life to the ground; He has made me dwell in [^a]darkness, Like those who have long been dead. 

###### 4 
Therefore my spirit is overwhelmed within me; My heart within me is distressed. 

###### 5 
I remember the days of old; I meditate on all Your works; I [^b]muse on the work of Your hands. 

###### 6 
I spread out my hands to You; My soul _longs_ for You like a thirsty land. <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 7 
Answer me speedily, O Lord; My spirit fails! Do not hide Your face from me, Lest I [^c]be like those who [^d]go down into the pit. 

###### 8 
Cause me to hear Your lovingkindness in the morning, For in You do I trust; Cause me to know the way in which I should walk, For I lift up my soul to You. 

###### 9 
Deliver me, O Lord, from my enemies; [^e]In You I take shelter. 

###### 10 
Teach me to do Your will, For You _are_ my God; Your Spirit _is_ good. Lead me in the land of uprightness. 

###### 11 
Revive me, O Lord, for Your name's sake! For Your righteousness' sake bring my soul out of trouble. 

###### 12 
In Your mercy cut[^f] off my enemies, And destroy all those who afflict my soul; For I _am_ Your servant. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 143:3 _dark places_ [^b]: Psalm 143:5 _ponder_ [^c]: Psalm 143:7 _become_ [^d]: Psalm 143:7 Die [^e]: Psalm 143:9 LXX, Vg. _To You I flee_ [^f]: Psalm 143:12 _put an end to_
