---
Aliases: [Psalms 105]
previous: ['Ps 104']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 106']
---
# Psalms 105

***


###### 1 
Oh, give thanks to the Lord! Call upon His name; Make known His deeds among the peoples! 

###### 2 
Sing to Him, sing psalms to Him; Talk of all His wondrous works! 

###### 3 
Glory in His holy name; Let the hearts of those rejoice who seek the Lord! 

###### 4 
Seek the Lord and His strength; Seek His face evermore! 

###### 5 
Remember His marvelous works which He has done, His wonders, and the judgments of His mouth, 

###### 6 
O seed of Abraham His servant, You children of Jacob, His chosen ones! 

###### 7 
He _is_ the Lord our God; His judgments _are_ in all the earth. 

###### 8 
He remembers His covenant forever, The word _which_ He commanded, for a thousand generations, 

###### 9 
_The covenant_ which He made with Abraham, And His oath to Isaac, 

###### 10 
And confirmed it to Jacob for a statute, To Israel _as_ an everlasting covenant, 

###### 11 
Saying, "To you I will give the land of Canaan As the allotment of your inheritance," 

###### 12 
When they were few in number, Indeed very few, and strangers in it. 

###### 13 
When they went from one nation to another, From _one_ kingdom to another people, 

###### 14 
He permitted no one to do them wrong; Yes, He rebuked kings for their sakes, 

###### 15 
_Saying,_ "Do not touch My anointed ones, And do My prophets no harm." 

###### 16 
Moreover He called for a famine in the land; He destroyed all the provision of bread. 

###### 17 
He sent a man before them-- Joseph--_who_ was sold as a slave. 

###### 18 
They hurt his feet with fetters, He was laid in irons. 

###### 19 
Until the time that his word came to pass, The word of the Lord tested him. 

###### 20 
The king sent and released him, The ruler of the people let him go free. 

###### 21 
He made him lord of his house, And ruler of all his possessions, 

###### 22 
To bind his princes at his pleasure, And teach his elders wisdom. 

###### 23 
Israel also came into Egypt, And Jacob dwelt in the land of Ham. 

###### 24 
He increased His people greatly, And made them stronger than their enemies. 

###### 25 
He turned their heart to hate His people, To deal craftily with His servants. 

###### 26 
He sent Moses His servant, _And_ Aaron whom He had chosen. 

###### 27 
They performed His signs among them, And wonders in the land of Ham. 

###### 28 
He sent darkness, and made _it_ dark; And they did not rebel against His word. 

###### 29 
He turned their waters into blood, And killed their fish. 

###### 30 
Their land abounded with frogs, _Even_ in the chambers of their kings. 

###### 31 
He spoke, and there came swarms of flies, _And_ lice in all their territory. 

###### 32 
He gave them hail for rain, _And_ flaming fire in their land. 

###### 33 
He struck their vines also, and their fig trees, And splintered the trees of their territory. 

###### 34 
He spoke, and locusts came, Young locusts without number, 

###### 35 
And ate up all the vegetation in their land, And devoured the fruit of their ground. 

###### 36 
He also destroyed all the firstborn in their land, The first of all their strength. 

###### 37 
He also brought them out with silver and gold, And _there was_ none feeble among His tribes. 

###### 38 
Egypt was glad when they departed, For the fear of them had fallen upon them. 

###### 39 
He spread a cloud for a covering, And fire to give light in the night. 

###### 40 
_The people_ asked, and He brought quail, And satisfied them with the bread of heaven. 

###### 41 
He opened the rock, and water gushed out; It ran in the dry places _like_ a river. 

###### 42 
For He remembered His holy promise, _And_ Abraham His servant. 

###### 43 
He brought out His people with joy, His chosen ones with gladness. 

###### 44 
He gave them the lands of the Gentiles, And they inherited the labor of the nations, 

###### 45 
That they might observe His statutes And keep His laws. Praise the Lord!
