---
Aliases: [Psalms 146]
previous: ['Ps 145']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 147']
---
# Psalms 146

***


###### 1 
Praise[^a] the Lord! Praise the Lord, O my soul! 

###### 2 
While I live I will praise the Lord; I will sing praises to my God while I have my being. 

###### 3 
Do not put your trust in princes, _Nor_ in [^b]a son of man, in whom _there is_ no [^c]help. 

###### 4 
His spirit departs, he returns to his earth; In that very day his plans perish. 

###### 5 
Happy _is he_ who _has_ the God of Jacob for his help, Whose hope _is_ in the Lord his God, 

###### 6 
Who made heaven and earth, The sea, and all that _is_ in them; Who keeps truth forever, 

###### 7 
Who executes justice for the oppressed, Who gives food to the hungry. The Lord gives freedom to the prisoners. 

###### 8 
The Lord opens _the eyes of_ the blind; The Lord raises those who are bowed down; The Lord loves the righteous. 

###### 9 
The Lord watches over the strangers; He relieves the fatherless and widow; But the way of the wicked He [^d]turns upside down. 

###### 10 
The Lord shall reign forever-- Your God, O Zion, to all generations. Praise the Lord! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 146:1 Heb. _Hallelujah_ [^b]: Psalm 146:3 A human being [^c]: Psalm 146:3 _salvation_ [^d]: Psalm 146:9 Lit. _makes crooked_
