---
Aliases: [Psalms 118]
previous: ['Ps 117']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 119']
---
# Psalms 118

***


###### 1 
Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for _He is_ good! For His mercy _endures_ forever. 

###### 2 
Let Israel now say, "His mercy _endures_ forever." 

###### 3 
Let the house of Aaron now say, "His mercy _endures_ forever." 

###### 4 
Let those who fear the Lord now say, "His mercy _endures_ forever." 

###### 5 
I called on the Lord in distress; The Lord answered me _and_ _set me_ in a broad place. 

###### 6 
The Lord _is_ on my side; I will not fear. What can man do to me? 

###### 7 
The Lord is for me among those who help me; Therefore I shall see _my desire_ on those who hate me. 

###### 8 
_It is_ better to trust in the Lord Than to put confidence in man. 

###### 9 
_It is_ better to trust in the Lord Than to put confidence in princes. 

###### 10 
All nations surrounded me, But in the name of the Lord I will destroy them. 

###### 11 
They surrounded me, Yes, they surrounded me; But in the name of the Lord I will destroy them. 

###### 12 
They surrounded me like bees; They were quenched like a fire of thorns; For in the name of the Lord I will [^a]destroy them. 

###### 13 
You pushed me violently, that I might fall, But the Lord helped me. 

###### 14 
The Lord _is_ my strength and song, And He has become my salvation. 

###### 15 
The voice of rejoicing and salvation _Is_ in the tents of the righteous; The right hand of the Lord does valiantly. 

###### 16 
The right hand of the Lord is exalted; The right hand of the Lord does valiantly. 

###### 17 
I shall not die, but live, And declare the works of the Lord. 

###### 18 
The Lord has chastened[^b] me severely, But He has not given me over to death. 

###### 19 
Open to me the gates of righteousness; I will go through them, _And_ I will praise the Lord. 

###### 20 
This is the gate of the Lord, Through which the righteous shall enter. 

###### 21 
I will praise You, For You have answered me, And have become my salvation. 

###### 22 
The stone _which_ the builders rejected Has become the chief cornerstone. 

###### 23 
[^c]This was the Lord's doing; It _is_ marvelous in our eyes. 

###### 24 
This _is_ the day the Lord has made; We will rejoice and be glad in it. 

###### 25 
Save now, I pray, O Lord; O Lord, I pray, send now prosperity. 

###### 26 
Blessed _is_ he who comes in the name of the Lord! We have blessed you from the house of the Lord. 

###### 27 
God _is_ the Lord, And He has given us light; Bind the sacrifice with cords to the horns of the altar. 

###### 28 
You _are_ my God, and I will praise You; _You are_ my God, I will exalt You. 

###### 29 
Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for _He is_ good! For His mercy _endures_ forever.
