---
Aliases: [Psalms 135]
previous: ['Ps 134']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 136']
---
# Psalms 135

***


###### 1 
Praise the Lord! Praise the name of the Lord; Praise _Him,_ O you servants of the Lord! 

###### 2 
You who stand in the house of the Lord, In the courts of the house of our God, 

###### 3 
Praise the Lord, for the Lord _is_ good; Sing praises to His name, for _it is_ pleasant. 

###### 4 
For the Lord has chosen Jacob for Himself, Israel for His [^a]special treasure. 

###### 5 
For I know that the Lord _is_ great, And our Lord _is_ above all gods. 

###### 6 
Whatever the Lord pleases He does, In heaven and in earth, In the seas and in all deep places. 

###### 7 
He causes the [^b]vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth; He makes lightning for the rain; He brings the wind out of His treasuries. 

###### 8 
He [^c]destroyed the firstborn of Egypt, [^d]Both of man and beast. 

###### 9 
He sent signs and wonders into the midst of you, O Egypt, Upon Pharaoh and all his servants. 

###### 10 
He defeated many nations And slew mighty kings-- 

###### 11 
Sihon king of the Amorites, Og king of Bashan, And all the kingdoms of Canaan-- 

###### 12 
And gave their land _as_ a [^e]heritage, A heritage to Israel His people. 

###### 13 
Your name, O Lord, _endures_ forever, Your fame, O Lord, throughout all generations. 

###### 14 
For the Lord will judge His people, And He will have compassion on His servants. 

###### 15 
The idols of the nations _are_ silver and gold, The work of men's hands. 

###### 16 
They have mouths, but they do not speak; Eyes they have, but they do not see; 

###### 17 
They have ears, but they do not hear; Nor is there _any_ breath in their mouths. 

###### 18 
Those who make them are like them; _So is_ everyone who trusts in them. 

###### 19 
Bless the Lord, O house of Israel! Bless the Lord, O house of Aaron! 

###### 20 
Bless the Lord, O house of Levi! You who fear the Lord, bless the Lord! 

###### 21 
Blessed be the Lord out of Zion, Who dwells in Jerusalem! Praise the Lord! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 135:4 _precious possession_ [^b]: Psalm 135:7 Water vapor [^c]: Psalm 135:8 Lit. _struck down_ [^d]: Psalm 135:8 Lit. _From man to beast_ [^e]: Psalm 135:12 _inheritance_
