---
Aliases: [Psalms 24]
previous: ['Ps 23']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 25']
---
# Psalms 24

***


###### 1 
The earth _is_ the Lord's, and all its fullness, The world and those who dwell therein. 

###### 2 
For He has founded it upon the seas, And established it upon the [^a]waters. 

###### 3 
Who may ascend into the hill of the Lord? Or who may stand in His holy place? 

###### 4 
He who has clean hands and a pure heart, Who has not lifted up his soul to an idol, Nor sworn deceitfully. 

###### 5 
He shall receive blessing from the Lord, And righteousness from the God of his salvation. 

###### 6 
This _is_ Jacob, the generation of those who seek Him, Who seek Your face. <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 7 
Lift up your heads, O you gates! And be lifted up, you everlasting doors! And the King of glory shall come in. 

###### 8 
Who _is_ this King of glory? The Lord strong and mighty, The Lord mighty in battle. 

###### 9 
Lift up your heads, O you gates! Lift up, you everlasting doors! And the King of glory shall come in. 

###### 10 
Who is this King of glory? The Lord of hosts, He _is_ the King of glory. <i class="selah">Selah_ ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 24:2 Lit. _rivers_
