---
Aliases: [Psalms 23]
previous: ['Ps 22']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 24']
---
# Psalms 23

***


###### 1 
The Lord _is_ my shepherd; I shall not [^a]want. 

###### 2 
He makes me to lie down in [^b]green pastures; He leads me beside the [^c]still waters. 

###### 3 
He restores my soul; He leads me in the paths of righteousness For His name's sake. 

###### 4 
Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil; For You _are_ with me; Your rod and Your staff, they comfort me. 

###### 5 
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies; You anoint my head with oil; My cup runs over. 

###### 6 
Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me All the days of my life; And I will [^d]dwell in the house of the Lord [^e]Forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 23:1 _lack_ [^b]: Psalm 23:2 Lit. _pastures of tender grass_ [^c]: Psalm 23:2 Lit. _waters of rest_ [^d]: Psalm 23:6 So with LXX, Syr., Tg., Vg.; MT _return_ [^e]: Psalm 23:6 Or _To the end of my days,_ lit. _For length of days_
