---
Aliases: [Psalms 21]
previous: ['Ps 20']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 22']
---
# Psalms 21

***


###### 1 
The king shall have joy in Your strength, O Lord; And in Your salvation how greatly shall he rejoice! 

###### 2 
You have given him his heart's desire, And have not withheld the request of his lips. <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 3 
For You meet him with the blessings of goodness; You set a crown of pure gold upon his head. 

###### 4 
He asked life from You, _and_ You gave _it_ to him-- Length of days forever and ever. 

###### 5 
His glory _is_ great in Your salvation; Honor and majesty You have placed upon him. 

###### 6 
For You have made him most blessed forever; You have made him [^a]exceedingly glad with Your presence. 

###### 7 
For the king trusts in the Lord, And through the mercy of the Most High he shall not be [^b]moved. 

###### 8 
Your hand will find all Your enemies; Your right hand will find those who hate You. 

###### 9 
You shall make them as a fiery oven in the time of Your anger; The Lord shall swallow them up in His wrath, And the fire shall devour them. 

###### 10 
Their offspring You shall destroy from the earth, And their [^c]descendants from among the sons of men. 

###### 11 
For they intended evil against You; They devised a plot _which_ they are not able _to_ _perform._ 

###### 12 
Therefore You will make them turn their back; You will make ready _Your arrows_ on Your string toward their faces. 

###### 13 
Be exalted, O Lord, in Your own strength! We will sing and praise Your power. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 21:6 Lit. _joyful with gladness_ [^b]: Psalm 21:7 _shaken_ [^c]: Psalm 21:10 Lit. _seed_
