---
Aliases: [Psalms 27]
previous: ['Ps 26']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 28']
---
# Psalms 27

***


###### 1 
The Lord _is_ my light and my salvation; Whom shall I fear? The Lord _is_ the strength of my life; Of whom shall I be afraid? 

###### 2 
When the wicked came against me To eat[^a] up my flesh, My enemies and foes, They stumbled and fell. 

###### 3 
Though an army may encamp against me, My heart shall not fear; Though war may rise against me, In this I _will be_ confident. 

###### 4 
One _thing_ I have desired of the Lord, That will I seek: That I may dwell in the house of the Lord All the days of my life, To behold the [^b]beauty of the Lord, And to inquire in His temple. 

###### 5 
For in the time of trouble He shall hide me in His pavilion; In the secret place of His tabernacle He shall hide me; He shall set me high upon a rock. 

###### 6 
And now my head shall be [^c]lifted up above my enemies all around me; Therefore I will offer sacrifices of [^d]joy in His tabernacle; I will sing, yes, I will sing praises to the Lord. 

###### 7 
Hear, O Lord, _when_ I cry with my voice! Have mercy also upon me, and answer me. 

###### 8 
_When You said,_ "Seek My face," My heart said to You, "Your face, Lord, I will seek." 

###### 9 
Do not hide Your face from me; Do not turn Your servant away in anger; You have been my help; Do not leave me nor forsake me, O God of my salvation. 

###### 10 
When my father and my mother forsake me, Then the Lord will take care of me. 

###### 11 
Teach me Your way, O Lord, And lead me in a smooth path, because of my enemies. 

###### 12 
Do not deliver me to the will of my adversaries; For false witnesses have risen against me, And such as breathe out violence. 

###### 13 
_I would have lost heart,_ unless I had believed That I would see the goodness of the Lord In the land of the living. 

###### 14 
Wait[^e] on the Lord; Be of good courage, And He shall strengthen your heart; Wait, I say, on the Lord! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 27:2 _devour_ [^b]: Psalm 27:4 _delightfulness_ [^c]: Psalm 27:6 Lifted up in honor [^d]: Psalm 27:6 _joyous shouts_ [^e]: Psalm 27:14 Wait in faith
