---
Aliases: [Psalms 38]
previous: ['Ps 37']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 39']
---
# Psalms 38

***


###### 1 
O Lord, do not rebuke me in Your wrath, Nor chasten me in Your hot displeasure! 

###### 2 
For Your arrows pierce me deeply, And Your hand presses me down. 

###### 3 
_There is_ no soundness in my flesh Because of Your anger, Nor _any_ health in my bones Because of my sin. 

###### 4 
For my iniquities have gone over my head; Like a heavy burden they are too heavy for me. 

###### 5 
My wounds are foul _and_ festering Because of my foolishness. 

###### 6 
I am [^a]troubled, I am bowed down greatly; I go mourning all the day long. 

###### 7 
For my loins are full of inflammation, And _there is_ no soundness in my flesh. 

###### 8 
I am feeble and severely broken; I groan because of the turmoil of my heart. 

###### 9 
Lord, all my desire _is_ before You; And my sighing is not hidden from You. 

###### 10 
My heart pants, my strength fails me; As for the light of my eyes, it also has gone from me. 

###### 11 
My loved ones and my friends stand aloof from my plague, And my relatives stand afar off. 

###### 12 
Those also who seek my life lay snares _for me;_ Those who seek my hurt speak of destruction, And plan deception all the day long. 

###### 13 
But I, like a deaf _man,_ do not hear; And _I am_ like a mute _who_ does not open his mouth. 

###### 14 
Thus I am like a man who does not hear, And in whose mouth _is_ no response. 

###### 15 
For [^b]in You, O Lord, I hope; You will [^c]hear, O Lord my God. 

###### 16 
For I said, "_Hear me,_ lest they rejoice over me, Lest, when my foot slips, they exalt _themselves_ against me." 

###### 17 
For I _am_ ready to fall, And my sorrow _is_ continually before me. 

###### 18 
For I will declare my iniquity; I will be in [^d]anguish over my sin. 

###### 19 
But my enemies _are_ vigorous, _and_ they are strong; And those who hate me wrongfully have multiplied. 

###### 20 
Those also who render evil for good, They are my adversaries, because I follow _what is_ good. 

###### 21 
Do not forsake me, O Lord; O my God, be not far from me! 

###### 22 
Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation!
