---
Aliases: [Psalms 39]
previous: ['Ps 38']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 40']
---
# Psalms 39

***


###### 1 
I said, "I will guard my ways, Lest I sin with my tongue; I will restrain my mouth with a muzzle, While the wicked are before me." 

###### 2 
I was mute with silence, I held my peace _even_ from good; And my sorrow was stirred up. 

###### 3 
My heart was hot within me; While I was musing, the fire burned. _Then_ I spoke with my tongue: 

###### 4 
"Lord, make me to know my end, And what _is_ the measure of my days, _That_ I may know how frail I _am._ 

###### 5 
Indeed, You have made my days _as_ handbreadths, And my age _is_ as nothing before You; Certainly every man at his best state _is_ but vapor. Selah_ 

###### 6 
Surely every man walks about like a shadow; Surely they busy themselves in vain; He heaps up _riches,_ And does not know who will gather them. 

###### 7 
"And now, Lord, what do I wait for? My hope _is_ in You. 

###### 8 
Deliver me from all my transgressions; Do not make me the reproach of the foolish. 

###### 9 
I was mute, I did not open my mouth, Because it was You who did _it._ 

###### 10 
Remove Your plague from me; I am consumed by the blow of Your hand. 

###### 11 
When with rebukes You correct man for iniquity, You make his beauty melt away like a moth; Surely every man _is_ vapor. Selah_ 

###### 12 
"Hear my prayer, O Lord, And give ear to my cry; Do not be silent at my tears; For I _am_ a stranger with You, A sojourner, as all my fathers _were._ 

###### 13 
Remove Your gaze from me, that I may regain strength, Before I go away and am no more."
