---
Aliases: [Psalms 37]
previous: ['Ps 36']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 38']
---
# Psalms 37

***


###### 1 
Do not fret because of evildoers, Nor be envious of the workers of iniquity. 

###### 2 
For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, And wither as the green herb. 

###### 3 
Trust in the Lord, and do good; Dwell in the land, and feed on His faithfulness. 

###### 4 
Delight yourself also in the Lord, And He shall give you the desires of your heart. 

###### 5 
Commit[^a] your way to the Lord, Trust also in Him, And He shall bring _it_ to pass. 

###### 6 
He shall bring forth your righteousness as the light, And your justice as the noonday. 

###### 7 
Rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for Him; Do not fret because of him who prospers in his way, Because of the man who brings wicked schemes to pass. 

###### 8 
Cease from anger, and forsake wrath; Do not fret--_it_ only _causes_ harm. 

###### 9 
For evildoers shall be [^b]cut off; But those who wait on the Lord, They shall inherit the earth. 

###### 10 
For yet a little while and the wicked _shall be_ no _more;_ Indeed, you will look carefully for his place, But it _shall be_ no _more._ 

###### 11 
But the meek shall inherit the earth, And shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace. 

###### 12 
The wicked plots against the just, And gnashes at him with his teeth. 

###### 13 
The Lord laughs at him, For He sees that his day is coming. 

###### 14 
The wicked have drawn the sword And have bent their bow, To cast down the poor and needy, To slay those who are of upright conduct. 

###### 15 
Their sword shall enter their own heart, And their bows shall be broken. 

###### 16 
A little that a righteous man has _Is_ better than the riches of many wicked. 

###### 17 
For the arms of the wicked shall be broken, But the Lord upholds the righteous. 

###### 18 
The Lord knows the days of the upright, And their inheritance shall be forever. 

###### 19 
They shall not be ashamed in the evil time, And in the days of famine they shall be satisfied. 

###### 20 
But the wicked shall perish; And the enemies of the Lord, Like the splendor of the meadows, shall vanish. Into smoke they shall vanish away. 

###### 21 
The wicked borrows and does not repay, But the righteous shows mercy and gives. 

###### 22 
For _those_ blessed by Him shall inherit the earth, But _those_ cursed by Him shall be [^c]cut off. 

###### 23 
The steps of a _good_ man are [^d]ordered by the Lord, And He delights in his way. 

###### 24 
Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down; For the Lord upholds _him with_ His hand. 

###### 25 
I have been young, and _now_ am old; Yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken, Nor his descendants begging bread. 

###### 26 
_He is_ [^e]ever merciful, and lends; And his descendants _are_ blessed. 

###### 27 
Depart from evil, and do good; And dwell forevermore. 

###### 28 
For the Lord loves justice, And does not forsake His saints; They are preserved forever, But the descendants of the wicked shall be cut off. 

###### 29 
The righteous shall inherit the land, And dwell in it forever. 

###### 30 
The mouth of the righteous speaks wisdom, And his tongue talks of justice. 

###### 31 
The law of his God _is_ in his heart; None of his steps shall [^f]slide. 

###### 32 
The wicked watches the righteous, And seeks to slay him. 

###### 33 
The Lord will not leave him in his hand, Nor condemn him when he is judged. 

###### 34 
Wait on the Lord, And keep His way, And He shall exalt you to inherit the land; When the wicked are cut off, you shall see _it._ 

###### 35 
I have seen the wicked in great power, And spreading himself like a native green tree. 

###### 36 
Yet [^g]he passed away, and behold, he _was_ no _more;_ Indeed I sought him, but he could not be found. 

###### 37 
Mark the blameless _man,_ and observe the upright; For the future of _that_ man _is_ peace. 

###### 38 
But the transgressors shall be destroyed together; The future of the wicked shall be cut off. 

###### 39 
But the salvation of the righteous _is_ from the Lord; _He is_ their strength in the time of trouble. 

###### 40 
And the Lord shall help them and deliver them; He shall deliver them from the wicked, And save them, Because they trust in Him.
