---
Aliases: [Psalms 30]
previous: ['Ps 29']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 31']
---
# Psalms 30

***


###### 1 
I will extol You, O Lord, for You have lifted me up, And have not let my foes rejoice over me. 

###### 2 
O Lord my God, I cried out to You, And You healed me. 

###### 3 
O Lord, You brought my soul up from the grave; You have kept me alive, [^a]that I should not go down to the pit. 

###### 4 
Sing praise to the Lord, you saints of His, And give thanks at the remembrance of [^b]His holy name. 

###### 5 
For His anger _is but for_ a moment, His favor _is for_ life; Weeping may endure for a night, But [^c]joy _comes_ in the morning. 

###### 6 
Now in my prosperity I said, "I shall never be [^d]moved." 

###### 7 
Lord, by Your favor You have made my mountain stand strong; You hid Your face, _and_ I was troubled. 

###### 8 
I cried out to You, O Lord; And to the Lord I made supplication: 

###### 9 
"What profit _is there_ in my blood, When I go down to the pit? Will the dust praise You? Will it declare Your truth? 

###### 10 
Hear, O Lord, and have mercy on me; Lord, be my helper!" 

###### 11 
You have turned for me my mourning into dancing; You have put off [^e]my sackcloth and clothed me with gladness, 

###### 12 
To the end that _my_ [^f]glory may sing praise to You and not be silent. O Lord my God, I will give thanks to You forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 30:3 So with Qr., Tg.; Kt., LXX, Syr., Vg. _from those who descend to the pit_ [^b]: Psalm 30:4 Or _His holiness_ [^c]: Psalm 30:5 _a shout of joy_ [^d]: Psalm 30:6 _shaken_ [^e]: Psalm 30:11 The sackcloth of my mourning [^f]: Psalm 30:12 _soul_
