---
Aliases: [Psalms 31]
previous: ['Ps 30']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 32']
---
# Psalms 31

***


###### 1 
In You, O Lord, I put my trust; Let me never be ashamed; Deliver me in Your righteousness. 

###### 2 
Bow down Your ear to me, Deliver me speedily; Be my rock of refuge, A fortress of defense to save me. 

###### 3 
For You _are_ my rock and my fortress; Therefore, for Your name's sake, Lead me and guide me. 

###### 4 
Pull me out of the net which they have secretly laid for me, For You _are_ my strength. 

###### 5 
Into Your hand I commit my spirit; You have redeemed me, O Lord God of truth. 

###### 6 
I have hated those who regard useless idols; But I trust in the Lord. 

###### 7 
I will be glad and rejoice in Your mercy, For You have considered my trouble; You have known my soul in adversities, 

###### 8 
And have not shut me up into the hand of the enemy; You have set my feet in a wide place. 

###### 9 
Have mercy on me, O Lord, for I am in trouble; My eye wastes away with grief, _Yes,_ my soul and my body! 

###### 10 
For my life is spent with grief, And my years with sighing; My strength fails because of my iniquity, And my bones waste away. 

###### 11 
I am a reproach among all my enemies, But especially among my neighbors, And _am_ repulsive to my acquaintances; Those who see me outside flee from me. 

###### 12 
I am forgotten like a dead man, out of mind; I am like a broken vessel. 

###### 13 
For I hear the slander of many; Fear _is_ on every side; While they take counsel together against me, They scheme to take away my life. 

###### 14 
But as for me, I trust in You, O Lord; I say, "You _are_ my God." 

###### 15 
My times _are_ in Your hand; Deliver me from the hand of my enemies, And from those who persecute me. 

###### 16 
Make Your face shine upon Your servant; Save me for Your mercies' sake. 

###### 17 
Do not let me be ashamed, O Lord, for I have called upon You; Let the wicked be ashamed; Let them be silent in the grave. 

###### 18 
Let the lying lips be put to silence, Which speak insolent things proudly and contemptuously against the righteous. 

###### 19 
Oh, how great _is_ Your goodness, Which You have laid up for those who fear You, _Which_ You have prepared for those who trust in You In the presence of the sons of men! 

###### 20 
You shall hide them in the secret place of Your presence From the plots of man; You shall keep them secretly in a pavilion From the strife of tongues. 

###### 21 
Blessed _be_ the Lord, For He has shown me His marvelous kindness in a strong city! 

###### 22 
For I said in my haste, "I am cut off from before Your eyes"; Nevertheless You heard the voice of my supplications When I cried out to You. 

###### 23 
Oh, love the Lord, all you His saints! _For_ the Lord preserves the faithful, And fully repays the proud person. 

###### 24 
Be of good courage, And He shall strengthen your heart, All you who hope in the Lord.
