---
Aliases: [Psalms 35]
previous: ['Ps 34']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 36']
---
# Psalms 35

***


###### 1 
Plead[^a] _my cause,_ O Lord, with those who strive with me; Fight against those who fight against me. 

###### 2 
Take hold of shield and [^b]buckler, And stand up for my help. 

###### 3 
Also draw out the spear, And stop those who pursue me. Say to my soul, "I _am_ your salvation." 

###### 4 
Let those be put to shame and brought to dishonor Who seek after my life; Let those be turned back and brought to confusion Who plot my hurt. 

###### 5 
Let them be like chaff before the wind, And let the [^c]angel of the Lord chase _them._ 

###### 6 
Let their way be dark and slippery, And let the angel of the Lord pursue them. 

###### 7 
For without cause they have hidden their net for me _in_ a pit, _Which_ they have dug without cause for my life. 

###### 8 
[^d]Let destruction come upon him unexpectedly, And let his net that he has hidden catch himself; Into that very destruction let him fall. 

###### 9 
And my soul shall be joyful in the Lord; It shall rejoice in His salvation. 

###### 10 
All my bones shall say, "Lord, who _is_ like You, Delivering the poor from him who is too strong for him, Yes, the poor and the needy from him who plunders him?" 

###### 11 
Fierce witnesses rise up; They ask me _things_ that I do not know. 

###### 12 
They reward me evil for good, _To_ the sorrow of my soul. 

###### 13 
But as for me, when they were sick, My clothing _was_ sackcloth; I humbled myself with fasting; And my prayer would return to my own [^e]heart. 

###### 14 
I paced about as though _he were_ my friend _or_ brother; I bowed down [^f]heavily, as one who mourns _for his_ mother. 

###### 15 
But in my [^g]adversity they rejoiced And gathered together; Attackers gathered against me, And I did not know _it;_ They tore _at me_ and did not cease; 

###### 16 
With ungodly mockers at feasts They gnashed at me with their teeth. 

###### 17 
Lord, how long will You look on? Rescue me from their destructions, My precious _life_ from the lions. 

###### 18 
I will give You thanks in the great assembly; I will praise You among [^h]many people. 

###### 19 
Let them not rejoice over me who are wrongfully my enemies; Nor let them wink with the eye who hate me without a cause. 

###### 20 
For they do not speak peace, But they devise deceitful matters Against _the_ quiet ones in the land. 

###### 21 
They also opened their mouth wide against me, _And_ said, "Aha, aha! Our eyes have seen _it._" 

###### 22 
_This_ You have seen, O Lord; Do not keep silence. O Lord, do not be far from me. 

###### 23 
Stir up Yourself, and awake to my vindication, To my cause, my God and my Lord. 

###### 24 
Vindicate me, O Lord my God, according to Your righteousness; And let them not rejoice over me. 

###### 25 
Let them not say in their hearts, "Ah, so we would have it!" Let them not say, "We have swallowed him up." 

###### 26 
Let them be ashamed and brought to mutual confusion Who rejoice at my hurt; Let them be clothed with shame and dishonor Who exalt themselves against me. 

###### 27 
Let them shout for joy and be glad, Who favor my righteous cause; And let them say continually, "Let the Lord be magnified, Who has pleasure in the prosperity of His servant." 

###### 28 
And my tongue shall speak of Your righteousness _And_ of Your praise all the day long. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 35:1 _Contend for me_ [^b]: Psalm 35:2 A small shield [^c]: Psalm 35:5 Or _Angel_ [^d]: Psalm 35:8 Lit. _Let destruction he does not know come upon him,_ [^e]: Psalm 35:13 Lit. _bosom_ [^f]: Psalm 35:14 _in mourning_ [^g]: Psalm 35:15 _limping, stumbling_ [^h]: Psalm 35:18 _a mighty_
