---
Aliases: [Psalms 33]
previous: ['Ps 32']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 34']
---
# Psalms 33

***


###### 1 
Rejoice in the Lord, O you righteous! _For_ praise from the upright is beautiful. 

###### 2 
Praise the Lord with the harp; [^a]Make melody to Him with an instrument of ten strings. 

###### 3 
Sing to Him a new song; Play skillfully with a shout of joy. 

###### 4 
For the word of the Lord _is_ right, And all His work _is done_ in truth. 

###### 5 
He loves righteousness and justice; The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. 

###### 6 
By the word of the Lord the heavens were made, And all the host of them by the breath of His mouth. 

###### 7 
He gathers the waters of the sea together [^b]as a heap; He lays up the deep in storehouses. 

###### 8 
Let all the earth fear the Lord; Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of Him. 

###### 9 
For He spoke, and it was _done;_ He commanded, and it stood fast. 

###### 10 
The Lord brings the counsel of the nations to nothing; He makes the plans of the peoples of no effect. 

###### 11 
The counsel of the Lord stands forever, The plans of His heart to all generations. 

###### 12 
Blessed _is_ the nation whose God _is_ the Lord, The people He has chosen as His own inheritance. 

###### 13 
The Lord looks from heaven; He sees all the sons of men. 

###### 14 
From the place of His dwelling He looks On all the inhabitants of the earth; 

###### 15 
He fashions their hearts individually; He [^c]considers all their works. 

###### 16 
No king _is_ saved by the multitude of an army; A mighty man is not delivered by great strength. 

###### 17 
A horse _is_ a [^d]vain hope for safety; Neither shall it deliver _any_ by its great strength. 

###### 18 
Behold, the eye of the Lord _is_ on those who fear Him, On those who hope in His mercy, 

###### 19 
To deliver their soul from death, And to keep them alive in famine. 

###### 20 
Our soul waits for the Lord; He _is_ our help and our shield. 

###### 21 
For our heart shall rejoice in Him, Because we have trusted in His holy name. 

###### 22 
Let Your mercy, O Lord, be upon us, Just as we hope in You. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 33:2 Lit. _Sing to Him_ [^b]: Psalm 33:7 LXX, Tg., Vg. _in a vessel_ [^c]: Psalm 33:15 _understands_ [^d]: Psalm 33:17 _false_
