---
Aliases: [Psalms 34]
previous: ['Ps 33']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 35']
---
# Psalms 34

***


###### 1 
I will bless the Lord at all times; His praise _shall_ continually _be_ in my mouth. 

###### 2 
My soul shall make its boast in the Lord; The humble shall hear _of it_ and be glad. 

###### 3 
Oh, magnify the Lord with me, And let us exalt His name together. 

###### 4 
I sought the Lord, and He heard me, And delivered me from all my fears. 

###### 5 
They looked to Him and were radiant, And their faces were not ashamed. 

###### 6 
This poor man cried out, and the Lord heard _him,_ And saved him out of all his troubles. 

###### 7 
The [^a]angel of the Lord encamps all around those who fear Him, And delivers them. 

###### 8 
Oh, taste and see that the Lord _is_ good; Blessed _is_ the man _who_ trusts in Him! 

###### 9 
Oh, fear the Lord, you His saints! _There is_ no [^b]want to those who fear Him. 

###### 10 
The young lions lack and suffer hunger; But those who seek the Lord shall not lack any good _thing._ 

###### 11 
Come, you children, listen to me; I will teach you the fear of the Lord. 

###### 12 
Who _is_ the man _who_ desires life, And loves _many_ days, that he may see good? 

###### 13 
Keep your tongue from evil, And your lips from speaking deceit. 

###### 14 
Depart from evil and do good; Seek peace and pursue it. 

###### 15 
The eyes of the Lord _are_ on the righteous, And His ears _are open_ to their cry. 

###### 16 
The face of the Lord _is_ against those who do evil, To [^c]cut off the remembrance of them from the earth. 

###### 17 
_The righteous_ cry out, and the Lord hears, And delivers them out of all their troubles. 

###### 18 
The Lord _is_ near to those who have a broken heart, And saves such as [^d]have a contrite spirit. 

###### 19 
Many _are_ the afflictions of the righteous, But the Lord delivers him out of them all. 

###### 20 
He guards all his bones; Not one of them is broken. 

###### 21 
Evil shall slay the wicked, And those who hate the righteous shall be [^e]condemned. 

###### 22 
The Lord redeems the soul of His servants, And none of those who trust in Him shall be condemned.
