---
Aliases: [Psalms 41]
previous: ['Ps 40']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 42']
---
# Psalms 41

***


###### 1 
Blessed _is_ he who considers the [^a]poor; The Lord will deliver him in time of trouble. 

###### 2 
The Lord will preserve him and keep him alive, _And_ he will be blessed on the earth; You will not deliver him to the will of his enemies. 

###### 3 
The Lord will strengthen him on his bed of illness; You will [^b]sustain him on his sickbed. 

###### 4 
I said, "Lord, be merciful to me; Heal my soul, for I have sinned against You." 

###### 5 
My enemies speak evil of me: "When will he die, and his name perish?" 

###### 6 
And if he comes to see _me,_ he speaks [^c]lies; His heart gathers iniquity to itself; _When_ he goes out, he tells _it._ 

###### 7 
All who hate me whisper together against me; Against me they [^d]devise my hurt. 

###### 8 
"An[^e] evil disease," _they say,_ "clings to him. And _now_ that he lies down, he will rise up no more." 

###### 9 
Even my own familiar friend in whom I trusted, Who ate my bread, Has [^f]lifted up _his_ heel against me. 

###### 10 
But You, O Lord, be merciful to me, and raise me up, That I may repay them. 

###### 11 
By this I know that You are well pleased with me, Because my enemy does not triumph over me. 

###### 12 
As for me, You uphold me in my integrity, And set me before Your face forever. 

###### 13 
Blessed _be_ the Lord God of Israel From everlasting to everlasting! Amen and Amen. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 41:1 _helpless_ or _powerless_ [^b]: Psalm 41:3 _restore_ [^c]: Psalm 41:6 _empty words_ [^d]: Psalm 41:7 _plot_ [^e]: Psalm 41:8 Lit. _A thing of Belial_ [^f]: Psalm 41:9 Acted as a traitor
