---
Aliases: [Psalms 42]
previous: ['Ps 41']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 43']
---
# Psalms 42

***


###### 1 
As the deer pants for the water brooks, So pants my soul for You, O God. 

###### 2 
My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? 

###### 3 
My tears have been my food day and night, While they continually say to me, "Where _is_ your God?" 

###### 4 
When I remember these _things,_ I pour out my soul within me. For I used to go with the multitude; I went with them to the house of God, With the voice of joy and praise, With a multitude that kept a pilgrim feast. 

###### 5 
Why are you cast down, O my soul? And _why_ are you disquieted within me? Hope in God, for I shall yet praise Him _For_ the help of His countenance. 

###### 6 
O my God, my soul is cast down within me; Therefore I will remember You from the land of the Jordan, And from the heights of Hermon, From the Hill Mizar. 

###### 7 
Deep calls unto deep at the noise of Your waterfalls; All Your waves and billows have gone over me. 

###### 8 
The Lord will command His lovingkindness in the daytime, And in the night His song _shall be_ with me-- A prayer to the God of my life. 

###### 9 
I will say to God my Rock, "Why have You forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?" 

###### 10 
_As_ with a breaking of my bones, My enemies reproach me, While they say to me all day long, "Where _is_ your God?" 

###### 11 
Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you disquieted within me? Hope in God; For I shall yet praise Him, The help of my countenance and my God.
