---
Aliases: [Psalms 49]
previous: ['Ps 48']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 50']
---
# Psalms 49

***


###### 1 
Hear this, all peoples; Give ear, all inhabitants of the world, 

###### 2 
Both low and high, Rich and poor together. 

###### 3 
My mouth shall speak wisdom, And the meditation of my heart _shall give_ understanding. 

###### 4 
I will incline my ear to a proverb; I will disclose my [^a]dark saying on the harp. 

###### 5 
Why should I fear in the days of evil, _When_ the iniquity at my heels surrounds me? 

###### 6 
Those who trust in their wealth And boast in the multitude of their riches, 

###### 7 
None _of them_ can by any means redeem _his_ brother, Nor give to God a ransom for him-- 

###### 8 
For the redemption of their souls _is_ costly, And it shall cease forever-- 

###### 9 
That he should continue to live eternally, _And_ not [^b]see the Pit. 

###### 10 
For he sees wise men die; Likewise the fool and the senseless person perish, And leave their wealth to others. 

###### 11 
[^c]Their inner thought _is that_ their houses _will last_ forever, Their dwelling places to all generations; They call _their_ lands after their own names. 

###### 12 
Nevertheless man, _though_ in honor, does not [^d]remain; He is like the beasts _that_ perish. 

###### 13 
This is the way of those who _are_ foolish, And of their posterity who approve their sayings. <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 14 
Like sheep they are laid in the grave; Death shall feed on them; The upright shall have dominion over them in the morning; And their beauty shall be consumed in [^e]the grave, far from their dwelling. 

###### 15 
But God will redeem my soul from the power of [^f]the grave, For He shall receive me. <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 16 
Do not be afraid when one becomes rich, When the glory of his house is increased; 

###### 17 
For when he dies he shall carry nothing away; His glory shall not descend after him. 

###### 18 
Though while he lives he blesses himself (For _men_ will praise you when you do well for yourself), 

###### 19 
He shall go to the generation of his fathers; They shall never see light.[^g] 

###### 20 
A man _who is_ in honor, yet does not understand, Is like the beasts _that_ perish.
