---
Aliases: [Psalms 46]
previous: ['Ps 45']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 47']
---
# Psalms 46

***


###### 1 
God _is_ our refuge and strength, A[^a] very present help in trouble. 

###### 2 
Therefore we will not fear, Even though the earth be removed, And though the mountains be carried into the [^b]midst of the sea; 

###### 3 
_Though_ its waters roar _and_ be troubled, _Though_ the mountains shake with its swelling. <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 4 
_There is_ a river whose streams shall make glad the city of God, The holy _place_ of the [^c]tabernacle of the Most High. 

###### 5 
God _is_ in the midst of her, she shall not be [^d]moved; God shall help her, just [^e]at the break of dawn. 

###### 6 
The nations raged, the kingdoms were moved; He uttered His voice, the earth melted. 

###### 7 
The Lord of hosts _is_ with us; The God of Jacob _is_ our refuge. <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 8 
Come, behold the works of the Lord, Who has made desolations in the earth. 

###### 9 
He makes wars cease to the end of the earth; He breaks the bow and cuts the spear in two; He burns the chariot in the fire. 

###### 10 
Be still, and know that I _am_ God; I will be exalted among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth! 

###### 11 
The Lord of hosts _is_ with us; The God of Jacob _is_ our refuge. <i class="selah">Selah_ ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 46:1 _An abundantly available help_ [^b]: Psalm 46:2 Lit. _heart_ [^c]: Psalm 46:4 _dwelling places_ [^d]: Psalm 46:5 _shaken_ [^e]: Psalm 46:5 Lit. _at the turning of the morning_
