---
Aliases: [Psalms 50]
previous: ['Ps 49']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 51']
---
# Psalms 50

***


###### 1 
The Mighty One, God the Lord, Has spoken and called the earth From the rising of the sun to its going down. 

###### 2 
Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God will shine forth. 

###### 3 
Our God shall come, and shall not keep silent; A fire shall devour before Him, And it shall be very tempestuous all around Him. 

###### 4 
He shall call to the heavens from above, And to the earth, that He may judge His people: 

###### 5 
"Gather My saints together to Me, Those who have made a covenant with Me by sacrifice." 

###### 6 
Let the heavens declare His righteousness, For God Himself _is_ Judge. <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 7 
"Hear, O My people, and I will speak, O Israel, and I will testify against you; I _am_ God, your God! 

###### 8 
I will not rebuke you for your sacrifices Or your burnt offerings, _Which are_ continually before Me. 

###### 9 
I will not take a bull from your house, _Nor_ goats out of your folds. 

###### 10 
For every beast of the forest _is_ Mine, _And_ the cattle on a thousand hills. 

###### 11 
I know all the birds of the mountains, And the wild beasts of the field _are_ Mine. 

###### 12 
"If I were hungry, I would not tell you; For the world _is_ Mine, and all its fullness. 

###### 13 
Will I eat the flesh of bulls, Or drink the blood of goats? 

###### 14 
Offer to God thanksgiving, And pay your vows to the Most High. 

###### 15 
Call upon Me in the day of trouble; I will deliver you, and you shall glorify Me." 

###### 16 
But to the wicked God says: "What _right_ have you to declare My statutes, Or take My covenant in your mouth, 

###### 17 
Seeing you hate instruction And cast My words behind you? 

###### 18 
When you saw a thief, you consented with him, And have been a partaker with adulterers. 

###### 19 
You give your mouth to evil, And your tongue frames deceit. 

###### 20 
You sit _and_ speak against your brother; You slander your own mother's son. 

###### 21 
These _things_ you have done, and I kept silent; You thought that I was altogether like you; _But_ I will rebuke you, And set _them_ in order before your eyes. 

###### 22 
"Now consider this, you who forget God, Lest I tear _you_ in pieces, And _there be_ none to deliver: 

###### 23 
Whoever offers praise glorifies Me; And to him who orders _his_ conduct _aright_ I will show the salvation of God."
