---
Aliases: [Psalms 53]
previous: ['Ps 52']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 54']
---
# Psalms 53

***


###### 1 
The fool has said in his heart, "_There is_ no God." They are corrupt, and have done abominable iniquity; _There is_ none who does good. 

###### 2 
God looks down from heaven upon the children of men, To see if there are _any_ who understand, who seek God. 

###### 3 
Every one of them has turned aside; They have together become corrupt; _There is_ none who does good, No, not one. 

###### 4 
Have the workers of iniquity no knowledge, Who eat up my people _as_ they eat bread, And do not call upon God? 

###### 5 
There they are in great fear _Where_ no fear was, For God has scattered the bones of him who encamps against you; You have put _them_ to shame, Because God has despised them. 

###### 6 
Oh, that the salvation of Israel would come out of Zion! When God brings back [^b]the captivity of His people, Let Jacob rejoice _and_ Israel be glad. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 53:1 Heb. _Maschil_ [^b]: Psalm 53:6 Or _His captive people_
