---
Aliases: [Psalms 59]
previous: ['Ps 58']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 60']
---
# Psalms 59

***


###### 1 
Deliver me from my enemies, O my God; [^b]Defend me from those who rise up against me. 

###### 2 
Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, And save me from bloodthirsty men. 

###### 3 
For look, they lie in wait for my life; The mighty gather against me, Not _for_ my transgression nor _for_ my sin, O Lord. 

###### 4 
They run and prepare themselves through no fault _of mine._ Awake to help me, and behold! 

###### 5 
You therefore, O Lord God of hosts, the God of Israel, Awake to punish all the [^c]nations; Do not be merciful to any wicked transgressors. <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 6 
At evening they return, They growl like a dog, And go all around the city. 

###### 7 
Indeed, they belch with their mouth; Swords _are_ in their lips; For _they say,_ "Who hears?" 

###### 8 
But You, O Lord, shall laugh at them; You shall have all the [^d]nations in derision. 

###### 9 
I will wait for You, O You [^e]his Strength; For God _is_ my [^f]defense. 

###### 10 
[^g]My God of mercy shall come to meet me; God shall let me see _my desire_ on my enemies. 

###### 11 
Do not slay them, lest my people forget; Scatter them by Your power, And bring them down, O Lord our shield. 

###### 12 
_For_ the sin of their mouth _and_ the words of their lips, Let them even be taken in their pride, And for the cursing and lying _which_ they speak. 

###### 13 
Consume _them_ in wrath, consume _them,_ That they _may_ not _be;_ And let them know that God rules in Jacob To the ends of the earth. <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 14 
And at evening they return, They growl like a dog, And go all around the city. 

###### 15 
They wander up and down for food, And [^h]howl if they are not satisfied. 

###### 16 
But I will sing of Your power; Yes, I will sing aloud of Your mercy in the morning; For You have been my defense And refuge in the day of my trouble. 

###### 17 
To You, O my Strength, I will sing praises; For God _is_ my defense, My God of mercy. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 59:1 Heb. _Al Tashcheth_ [^b]: Psalm 59:1 Lit. _Set me on high_ [^c]: Psalm 59:5 _Gentiles_ [^d]: Psalm 59:8 _Gentiles_ [^e]: Psalm 59:9 So with MT, Syr.; some Heb. mss., LXX, Tg., Vg. _my Strength_ [^f]: Psalm 59:9 Lit. _fortress_ [^g]: Psalm 59:10 So with Qr.; some Heb. mss., LXX, Vg. _My God, His mercy;_ Kt., some Heb. mss., Tg. _O God, my mercy;_ Syr. _O God, Your mercy_ [^h]: Psalm 59:15 So with LXX, Vg.; MT, Syr., Tg. _spend the night_
