---
Aliases: [Psalms 55]
previous: ['Ps 54']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 56']
---
# Psalms 55

***


###### 1 
Give ear to my prayer, O God, And do not hide Yourself from my supplication. 

###### 2 
Attend to me, and hear me; I am restless in my complaint, and moan noisily, 

###### 3 
Because of the voice of the enemy, Because of the oppression of the wicked; For they bring down trouble upon me, And in wrath they hate me. 

###### 4 
My heart is severely pained within me, And the terrors of death have fallen upon me. 

###### 5 
Fearfulness and trembling have come upon me, And horror has overwhelmed me. 

###### 6 
So I said, "Oh, that I had wings like a dove! I would fly away and be at rest. 

###### 7 
Indeed, I would wander far off, _And_ remain in the wilderness. Selah_ 

###### 8 
I would hasten my escape From the windy storm _and_ tempest." 

###### 9 
Destroy, O Lord, _and_ divide their tongues, For I have seen violence and strife in the city. 

###### 10 
Day and night they go around it on its walls; Iniquity and trouble _are_ also in the midst of it. 

###### 11 
Destruction _is_ in its midst; Oppression and deceit do not depart from its streets. 

###### 12 
For _it is_ not an enemy _who_ reproaches me; Then I could bear _it._ Nor _is it_ one _who_ hates me who has exalted _himself_ against me; Then I could hide from him. 

###### 13 
But _it was_ you, a man my equal, My companion and my acquaintance. 

###### 14 
We took sweet counsel together, _And_ walked to the house of God in the throng. 

###### 15 
Let death seize them; Let them go down alive into hell, For wickedness _is_ in their dwellings _and_ among them. 

###### 16 
As for me, I will call upon God, And the Lord shall save me. 

###### 17 
Evening and morning and at noon I will pray, and cry aloud, And He shall hear my voice. 

###### 18 
He has redeemed my soul in peace from the battle _that was_ against me, For there were many against me. 

###### 19 
God will hear, and afflict them, Even He who abides from of old. Selah_ Because they do not change, Therefore they do not fear God. 

###### 20 
He has put forth his hands against those who were at peace with him; He has broken his covenant. 

###### 21 
_The words_ of his mouth were smoother than butter, But war _was_ in his heart; His words were softer than oil, Yet they _were_ drawn swords. 

###### 22 
Cast your burden on the Lord, And He shall sustain you; He shall never permit the righteous to be moved. 

###### 23 
But You, O God, shall bring them down to the pit of destruction; Bloodthirsty and deceitful men shall not live out half their days; But I will trust in You.
