---
Aliases: [Psalms 66]
previous: ['Ps 65']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 67']
---
# Psalms 66

***


###### 1 
Make a joyful shout to God, all the earth! 

###### 2 
Sing out the honor of His name; Make His praise glorious. 

###### 3 
Say to God, "How awesome are Your works! Through the greatness of Your power Your enemies shall submit themselves to You. 

###### 4 
All the earth shall worship You And sing praises to You; They shall sing praises _to_ Your name." Selah_ 

###### 5 
Come and see the works of God; _He is_ awesome _in His_ doing toward the sons of men. 

###### 6 
He turned the sea into dry _land;_ They went through the river on foot. There we will rejoice in Him. 

###### 7 
He rules by His power forever; His eyes observe the nations; Do not let the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah_ 

###### 8 
Oh, bless our God, you peoples! And make the voice of His praise to be heard, 

###### 9 
Who keeps our soul among the living, And does not allow our feet to be moved. 

###### 10 
For You, O God, have tested us; You have refined us as silver is refined. 

###### 11 
You brought us into the net; You laid affliction on our backs. 

###### 12 
You have caused men to ride over our heads; We went through fire and through water; But You brought us out to rich _fulfillment._ 

###### 13 
I will go into Your house with burnt offerings; I will pay You my vows, 

###### 14 
Which my lips have uttered And my mouth has spoken when I was in trouble. 

###### 15 
I will offer You burnt sacrifices of fat animals, With the sweet aroma of rams; I will offer bulls with goats. Selah_ 

###### 16 
Come _and_ hear, all you who fear God, And I will declare what He has done for my soul. 

###### 17 
I cried to Him with my mouth, And He was extolled with my tongue. 

###### 18 
If I regard iniquity in my heart, The Lord will not hear. 

###### 19 
_But_ certainly God has heard _me;_ He has attended to the voice of my prayer. 

###### 20 
Blessed _be_ God, Who has not turned away my prayer, Nor His mercy from me!
