---
Aliases: [Psalms 60]
previous: ['Ps 59']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 61']
---
# Psalms 60

***


###### 1 
O God, You have cast us off; You have broken us down; You have been displeased; Oh, restore us again! 

###### 2 
You have made the earth tremble; You have broken it; Heal its breaches, for it is shaking. 

###### 3 
You have shown Your people hard things; You have made us drink the wine of [^b]confusion. 

###### 4 
You have given a banner to those who fear You, That it may be displayed because of the truth. <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 5 
That Your beloved may be delivered, Save _with_ Your right hand, and hear me. 

###### 6 
God has spoken in His holiness: "I will rejoice; I will divide Shechem And measure out the Valley of Succoth. 

###### 7 
Gilead _is_ Mine, and Manasseh _is_ Mine; Ephraim also _is_ the [^c]helmet for My head; Judah _is_ My lawgiver. 

###### 8 
Moab _is_ My washpot; Over Edom I will cast My shoe; Philistia, shout in triumph because of Me." 

###### 9 
Who will bring me _to_ the strong city? Who will lead me to Edom? 

###### 10 
_Is it_ not You, O God, _who_ cast us off? And You, O God, _who_ did not go out with our armies? 

###### 11 
Give us help from trouble, For the help of man _is_ useless. 

###### 12 
Through God we will do valiantly, For _it is_ He _who_ shall tread down our enemies. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 60:1 Heb. _Shushan Eduth_ [^b]: Psalm 60:3 _staggering_ [^c]: Psalm 60:7 Lit. _protection_
