---
Aliases: [Psalms 68]
previous: ['Ps 67']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 69']
---
# Psalms 68

***


###### 1 
Let God arise, Let His enemies be scattered; Let those also who hate Him flee before Him. 

###### 2 
As smoke is driven away, So drive _them_ away; As wax melts before the fire, _So_ let the wicked perish at the presence of God. 

###### 3 
But let the righteous be glad; Let them rejoice before God; Yes, let them rejoice exceedingly. 

###### 4 
Sing to God, sing praises to His name; Extol[^a] Him who rides on the [^b]clouds, By His name [^c]Yah, And rejoice before Him. 

###### 5 
A father of the fatherless, a defender of widows, _Is_ God in His holy habitation. 

###### 6 
God sets the solitary in families; He brings out those who are bound into prosperity; But the rebellious dwell in a dry _land._ 

###### 7 
O God, when You went out before Your people, When You marched through the wilderness, <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 8 
The earth shook; The heavens also dropped _rain_ at the presence of God; Sinai itself _was moved_ at the presence of God, the God of Israel. 

###### 9 
You, O God, sent a plentiful rain, Whereby You confirmed Your inheritance, When it was weary. 

###### 10 
Your congregation dwelt in it; You, O God, provided from Your goodness for the poor. 

###### 11 
The Lord gave the word; Great _was_ the [^d]company of those who proclaimed _it:_ 

###### 12 
"Kings of armies flee, they flee, And she who remains at home divides the [^e]spoil. 

###### 13 
Though you lie down among the [^f]sheepfolds, _You will be_ like the wings of a dove covered with silver, And her feathers with yellow gold." 

###### 14 
When the Almighty scattered kings in it, It was _white_ as snow in Zalmon. 

###### 15 
A mountain of God _is_ the mountain of Bashan; A mountain _of many_ peaks _is_ the mountain of Bashan. 

###### 16 
Why do you [^g]fume with envy, you mountains of _many_ peaks? _This is_ the mountain _which_ God desires to dwell in; Yes, the Lord will dwell _in it_ forever. 

###### 17 
The chariots of God _are_ twenty thousand, _Even_ thousands of thousands; The Lord is among them _as in_ Sinai, in the Holy _Place._ 

###### 18 
You have ascended on high, You have led captivity captive; You have received gifts among men, Even _from_ the rebellious, That the Lord God might dwell _there._ 

###### 19 
Blessed _be_ the Lord, _Who_ daily loads us _with benefits,_ The God of our salvation! <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 20 
Our God _is_ the God of salvation; And to God the Lord _belong_ escapes from death. 

###### 21 
But God will wound the head of His enemies, The hairy scalp of the one who still goes on in his trespasses. 

###### 22 
The Lord said, "I will bring back from Bashan, I will bring _them_ back from the depths of the sea, 

###### 23 
That [^h]your foot may crush _them_ in blood, And the tongues of your dogs _may have_ their portion from _your_ enemies." 

###### 24 
They have seen Your [^i]procession, O God, The procession of my God, my King, into the sanctuary. 

###### 25 
The singers went before, the players on instruments _followed_ after; Among _them were_ the maidens playing timbrels. 

###### 26 
Bless God in the congregations, The Lord, from the fountain of Israel. 

###### 27 
There _is_ little Benjamin, their leader, The princes of Judah _and_ their [^j]company, The princes of Zebulun _and_ the princes of Naphtali. 

###### 28 
[^k]Your God has commanded your strength; Strengthen, O God, what You have done for us. 

###### 29 
Because of Your temple at Jerusalem, Kings will bring presents to You. 

###### 30 
Rebuke the beasts of the reeds, The herd of bulls with the calves of the peoples, _Till everyone_ submits himself with pieces of silver. Scatter the peoples _who_ delight in war. 

###### 31 
Envoys will come out of Egypt; Ethiopia will quickly stretch out her hands to God. 

###### 32 
Sing to God, you kingdoms of the earth; Oh, sing praises to the Lord, <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 33 
To Him who rides on the heaven of heavens, _which were_ of old! Indeed, He sends out His voice, a mighty voice. 

###### 34 
Ascribe strength to God; His excellence _is_ over Israel, And His strength _is_ in the clouds. 

###### 35 
O God, _You are_ more awesome than Your holy places. The God of Israel _is_ He who gives strength and power to _His_ people. Blessed _be_ God! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 68:4 _Praise_ [^b]: Psalm 68:4 MT _deserts;_ Tg. _heavens_ (cf. v. [34] and [Is. 19:1]) [^c]: Psalm 68:4 Lit. _Lord_, a shortened Heb. form [^d]: Psalm 68:11 _host_ [^e]: Psalm 68:12 _plunder_ [^f]: Psalm 68:13 Or _saddlebags_ [^g]: Psalm 68:16 Lit. _stare_ [^h]: Psalm 68:23 LXX, Syr., Tg., Vg. _you may dip your foot_ [^i]: Psalm 68:24 Lit. _goings_ [^j]: Psalm 68:27 _throng_ [^k]: Psalm 68:28 LXX, Syr., Tg., Vg. _Command, O God_
