---
Aliases: [Psalms 74]
previous: ['Ps 73']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 75']
---
# Psalms 74

***


###### 1 
O God, why have You cast _us_ off forever? _Why_ does Your anger smoke against the sheep of Your pasture? 

###### 2 
Remember Your congregation, _which_ You have purchased of old, The tribe of Your inheritance, _which_ You have redeemed-- This Mount Zion where You have dwelt. 

###### 3 
Lift up Your feet to the perpetual desolations. The enemy has damaged everything in the sanctuary. 

###### 4 
Your enemies roar in the midst of Your meeting place; They set up their banners _for_ signs. 

###### 5 
They seem like men who lift up Axes among the thick trees. 

###### 6 
And now they break down its carved work, all at once, With axes and hammers. 

###### 7 
They have set fire to Your sanctuary; They have defiled the dwelling place of Your name to the ground. 

###### 8 
They said in their hearts, "Let us [^b]destroy them altogether." They have burned up all the meeting places of God in the land. 

###### 9 
We do not see our signs; _There is_ no longer any prophet; Nor _is there_ any among us who knows how long. 

###### 10 
O God, how long will the adversary [^c]reproach? Will the enemy blaspheme Your name forever? 

###### 11 
Why do You withdraw Your hand, even Your right hand? _Take it_ out of Your bosom and destroy _them._ 

###### 12 
For God _is_ my King from of old, Working salvation in the midst of the earth. 

###### 13 
You divided the sea by Your strength; You broke the heads of the [^d]sea serpents in the waters. 

###### 14 
You broke the heads of [^e]Leviathan in pieces, _And_ gave him _as_ food to the people inhabiting the wilderness. 

###### 15 
You broke open the fountain and the flood; You dried up mighty rivers. 

###### 16 
The day _is_ Yours, the night also _is_ Yours; You have prepared the light and the sun. 

###### 17 
You have set all the borders of the earth; You have made summer and winter. 

###### 18 
Remember this, _that_ the enemy has reproached, O Lord, And _that_ a foolish people has blasphemed Your name. 

###### 19 
Oh, do not deliver the life of Your turtledove to the wild beast! Do not forget the life of Your poor forever. 

###### 20 
Have respect to the covenant; For the [^f]dark places of the earth are full of the [^g]haunts of [^h]cruelty. 

###### 21 
Oh, do not let the oppressed return ashamed! Let the poor and needy praise Your name. 

###### 22 
Arise, O God, plead Your own cause; Remember how the foolish man [^i]reproaches You daily. 

###### 23 
Do not forget the voice of Your enemies; The tumult of those who rise up against You increases continually. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 74:1 Heb. _Maschil_ [^b]: Psalm 74:8 _oppress_ [^c]: Psalm 74:10 _revile_ [^d]: Psalm 74:13 _sea monsters_ [^e]: Psalm 74:14 A large sea creature of unknown identity [^f]: Psalm 74:20 _hiding places_ [^g]: Psalm 74:20 _homes_ [^h]: Psalm 74:20 _violence_ [^i]: Psalm 74:22 _reviles_ or _taunts_
