---
Aliases: [Psalms 78]
previous: ['Ps 77']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 79']
---
# Psalms 78

***


###### 1 
Give ear, O my people, _to_ my law; Incline your ears to the words of my mouth. 

###### 2 
I will open my mouth in a parable; I will utter [^b]dark sayings of old, 

###### 3 
Which we have heard and known, And our fathers have told us. 

###### 4 
We will not hide _them_ from their children, Telling to the generation to come the praises of the Lord, And His strength and His wonderful works that He has done. 

###### 5 
For He established a testimony in Jacob, And appointed a law in Israel, Which He commanded our fathers, That they should make them known to their children; 

###### 6 
That the generation to come might know _them,_ The children _who_ would be born, _That_ they may arise and declare _them_ to their children, 

###### 7 
That they may set their hope in God, And not forget the works of God, But keep His commandments; 

###### 8 
And may not be like their fathers, A stubborn and rebellious generation, A generation _that_ did not [^c]set its heart aright, And whose spirit was not faithful to God. 

###### 9 
The children of Ephraim, _being_ armed _and_ [^d]carrying bows, Turned back in the day of battle. 

###### 10 
They did not keep the covenant of God; They refused to walk in His law, 

###### 11 
And forgot His works And His wonders that He had shown them. 

###### 12 
Marvelous things He did in the sight of their fathers, In the land of Egypt, _in_ the field of Zoan. 

###### 13 
He divided the sea and caused them to pass through; And He made the waters stand up like a heap. 

###### 14 
In the daytime also He led them with the cloud, And all the night with a light of fire. 

###### 15 
He split the rocks in the wilderness, And gave _them_ drink in abundance like the depths. 

###### 16 
He also brought streams out of the rock, And caused waters to run down like rivers. 

###### 17 
But they sinned even more against Him By rebelling against the Most High in the wilderness. 

###### 18 
And they tested God in their heart By asking for the food of their fancy. 

###### 19 
Yes, they spoke against God: They said, "Can God prepare a table in the wilderness? 

###### 20 
Behold, He struck the rock, So that the waters gushed out, And the streams overflowed. Can He give bread also? Can He provide meat for His people?" 

###### 21 
Therefore the Lord heard _this_ and was furious; So a fire was kindled against Jacob, And anger also came up against Israel, 

###### 22 
Because they did not believe in God, And did not trust in His salvation. 

###### 23 
Yet He had commanded the clouds above, And opened the doors of heaven, 

###### 24 
Had rained down manna on them to eat, And given them of the [^e]bread of heaven. 

###### 25 
Men ate angels' food; He sent them food to [^f]the full. 

###### 26 
He caused an east wind to blow in the heavens; And by His power He brought in the south wind. 

###### 27 
He also rained meat on them like the dust, Feathered fowl like the sand of the seas; 

###### 28 
And He let _them_ fall in the midst of their camp, All around their dwellings. 

###### 29 
So they ate and were well filled, For He gave them their own desire. 

###### 30 
They were not [^g]deprived of their craving; But while their food _was_ still in their mouths, 

###### 31 
The wrath of God came against them, And slew the stoutest of them, And struck down the choice _men_ of Israel. 

###### 32 
In spite of this they still sinned, And did not believe in His wondrous works. 

###### 33 
Therefore their days He consumed in futility, And their years in fear. 

###### 34 
When He slew them, then they sought Him; And they returned and sought earnestly for God. 

###### 35 
Then they remembered that God _was_ their rock, And the Most High God their Redeemer. 

###### 36 
Nevertheless they flattered Him with their mouth, And they lied to Him with their tongue; 

###### 37 
For their heart was not steadfast with Him, Nor were they faithful in His covenant. 

###### 38 
But He, _being_ full of compassion, forgave _their_ iniquity, And did not destroy _them._ Yes, many a time He turned His anger away, And did not stir up all His wrath; 

###### 39 
For He remembered that they _were but_ flesh, A breath that passes away and does not come again. 

###### 40 
How often they provoked[^h] Him in the wilderness, _And_ grieved Him in the desert! 

###### 41 
Yes, again and again they tempted God, And limited the Holy One of Israel. 

###### 42 
They did not remember His [^i]power: The day when He redeemed them from the enemy, 

###### 43 
When He worked His signs in Egypt, And His wonders in the field of Zoan; 

###### 44 
Turned their rivers into blood, And their streams, that they could not drink. 

###### 45 
He sent swarms of flies among them, which devoured them, And frogs, which destroyed them. 

###### 46 
He also gave their crops to the caterpillar, And their labor to the locust. 

###### 47 
He destroyed their vines with hail, And their sycamore trees with frost. 

###### 48 
He also gave up their cattle to the hail, And their flocks to fiery [^j]lightning. 

###### 49 
He cast on them the fierceness of His anger, Wrath, indignation, and trouble, By sending angels of destruction _among them._ 

###### 50 
He made a path for His anger; He did not spare their soul from death, But gave [^k]their life over to the plague, 

###### 51 
And destroyed all the firstborn in Egypt, The first of _their_ strength in the tents of Ham. 

###### 52 
But He made His own people go forth like sheep, And guided them in the wilderness like a flock; 

###### 53 
And He led them on safely, so that they did not fear; But the sea overwhelmed their enemies. 

###### 54 
And He brought them to His holy border, This mountain _which_ His right hand had acquired. 

###### 55 
He also drove out the nations before them, Allotted them an inheritance by [^l]survey, And made the tribes of Israel dwell in their tents. 

###### 56 
Yet they tested and provoked the Most High God, And did not keep His testimonies, 

###### 57 
But turned back and acted unfaithfully like their fathers; They were turned aside like a deceitful bow. 

###### 58 
For they provoked Him to anger with their high places, And moved Him to jealousy with their carved images. 

###### 59 
When God heard _this,_ He was furious, And greatly abhorred Israel, 

###### 60 
So that He forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh, The tent He had placed among men, 

###### 61 
And delivered His strength into captivity, And His glory into the enemy's hand. 

###### 62 
He also gave His people over to the sword, And was furious with His inheritance. 

###### 63 
The fire consumed their young men, And their maidens were not given in marriage. 

###### 64 
Their priests fell by the sword, And their widows made no lamentation. 

###### 65 
Then the Lord awoke as _from_ sleep, Like a mighty man who shouts because of wine. 

###### 66 
And He beat back His enemies; He put them to a perpetual reproach. 

###### 67 
Moreover He rejected the tent of Joseph, And did not choose the tribe of Ephraim, 

###### 68 
But chose the tribe of Judah, Mount Zion which He loved. 

###### 69 
And He built His sanctuary like the heights, Like the earth which He has established forever. 

###### 70 
He also chose David His servant, And took him from the sheepfolds; 

###### 71 
From following the ewes that had young He brought him, To shepherd Jacob His people, And Israel His inheritance. 

###### 72 
So he shepherded them according to the integrity of his heart, And guided them by the skillfulness of his hands.
