---
Aliases: [Psalms 77]
previous: ['Ps 76']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 78']
---
# Psalms 77

***


###### 1 
I cried out to God with my voice-- To God with my voice; And He gave ear to me. 

###### 2 
In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord; My hand was stretched out in the night without ceasing; My soul refused to be comforted. 

###### 3 
I remembered God, and was troubled; I complained, and my spirit was overwhelmed. <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 4 
You hold my eyelids _open;_ I am so troubled that I cannot speak. 

###### 5 
I have considered the days of old, The years of ancient times. 

###### 6 
I call to remembrance my song in the night; I meditate within my heart, And my spirit [^a]makes diligent search. 

###### 7 
Will the Lord cast off forever? And will He be favorable no more? 

###### 8 
Has His mercy ceased forever? Has _His_ promise failed [^b]forevermore? 

###### 9 
Has God forgotten to be gracious? Has He in anger shut up His tender mercies? <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 10 
And I said, "This _is_ my [^c]anguish; _But I will remember_ the years of the right hand of the Most High." 

###### 11 
I will remember the works of the Lord; Surely I will remember Your wonders of old. 

###### 12 
I will also meditate on all Your work, And talk of Your deeds. 

###### 13 
Your way, O God, _is_ in [^d]the sanctuary; Who _is_ so great a God as _our_ God? 

###### 14 
You _are_ the God who does wonders; You have declared Your strength among the peoples. 

###### 15 
You have with _Your_ arm redeemed Your people, The sons of Jacob and Joseph. <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 16 
The waters saw You, O God; The waters saw You, they were afraid; The depths also trembled. 

###### 17 
The clouds poured out water; The skies sent out a sound; Your arrows also flashed about. 

###### 18 
The voice of Your thunder _was_ in the whirlwind; The lightnings lit up the world; The earth trembled and shook. 

###### 19 
Your way _was_ in the sea, Your path in the great waters, And Your footsteps were not known. 

###### 20 
You led Your people like a flock By the hand of Moses and Aaron. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 77:6 _ponders diligently_ [^b]: Psalm 77:8 Lit. _unto generation and generation_ [^c]: Psalm 77:10 Lit. _infirmity_ [^d]: Psalm 77:13 Or _holiness_
