---
Aliases: [Psalms 75]
previous: ['Ps 74']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 76']
---
# Psalms 75

***


###### 1 
We give thanks to You, O God, we give thanks! For Your wondrous works declare _that_ Your name is near. 

###### 2 
"When I choose the [^b]proper time, I will judge uprightly. 

###### 3 
The earth and all its inhabitants are dissolved; I set up its pillars firmly. <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 4 
"I said to the boastful, 'Do not deal boastfully,' And to the wicked, 'Do not [^c]lift up the horn. 

###### 5 
Do not lift up your horn on high; Do _not_ speak with [^d]a stiff neck.' " 

###### 6 
For exaltation _comes_ neither from the east Nor from the west nor from the south. 

###### 7 
But God _is_ the Judge: He puts down one, And exalts another. 

###### 8 
For in the hand of the Lord _there is_ a cup, And the wine is red; It is fully mixed, and He pours it out; Surely its dregs shall all the wicked of the earth Drain _and_ drink down. 

###### 9 
But I will declare forever, I will sing praises to the God of Jacob. 

###### 10 
"All the [^e]horns of the wicked I will also cut off, _But_ the horns of the righteous shall be exalted." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 75:1 Heb. _Al Tashcheth_ [^b]: Psalm 75:2 _appointed_ [^c]: Psalm 75:4 Raise the head proudly like a horned animal [^d]: Psalm 75:5 Insolent pride [^e]: Psalm 75:10 Strength
