---
Aliases: [Psalms 73]
previous: ['Ps 72']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 74']
---
# Psalms 73

***


###### 1 
Truly God _is_ good to Israel, To such as are pure in heart. 

###### 2 
But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled; My steps had nearly slipped. 

###### 3 
For I _was_ envious of the boastful, When I saw the prosperity of the wicked. 

###### 4 
For _there are_ no [^a]pangs in their death, But their strength _is_ firm. 

###### 5 
They _are_ not in trouble _as other_ men, Nor are they plagued like _other_ men. 

###### 6 
Therefore pride serves as their necklace; Violence covers them _like_ a garment. 

###### 7 
Their [^b]eyes bulge with abundance; They have more than heart could wish. 

###### 8 
They scoff and speak wickedly _concerning_ oppression; They speak [^c]loftily. 

###### 9 
They set their mouth against the heavens, And their tongue walks through the earth. 

###### 10 
Therefore his people return here, And waters of a full _cup_ are drained by them. 

###### 11 
And they say, "How does God know? And is there knowledge in the Most High?" 

###### 12 
Behold, these _are_ the ungodly, Who are always at ease; They increase _in_ riches. 

###### 13 
Surely I have [^d]cleansed my heart _in_ vain, And washed my hands in innocence. 

###### 14 
For all day long I have been plagued, And chastened every morning. 

###### 15 
If I had said, "I will speak thus," Behold, I would have been untrue to the generation of Your children. 

###### 16 
When I thought _how_ to understand this, It _was_ [^e]too painful for me-- 

###### 17 
Until I went into the sanctuary of God; _Then_ I understood their end. 

###### 18 
Surely You set them in slippery places; You cast them down to destruction. 

###### 19 
Oh, how they are _brought_ to desolation, as in a moment! They are utterly consumed with terrors. 

###### 20 
As a dream when _one_ awakes, _So,_ Lord, when You awake, You shall despise their image. 

###### 21 
Thus my heart was grieved, And I was [^f]vexed in my mind. 

###### 22 
I _was_ so foolish and ignorant; I was _like_ a beast before You. 

###### 23 
Nevertheless I _am_ continually with You; You hold _me_ by my right hand. 

###### 24 
You will guide me with Your counsel, And afterward receive me _to_ glory. 

###### 25 
Whom have I in heaven _but You?_ And _there is_ none upon earth _that_ I desire besides You. 

###### 26 
My flesh and my heart fail; _But_ God _is_ the [^g]strength of my heart and my portion forever. 

###### 27 
For indeed, those who are far from You shall perish; You have destroyed all those who [^h]desert You for harlotry. 

###### 28 
But _it is_ good for me to draw near to God; I have put my trust in the Lord God, That I may declare all Your works. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 73:4 _pains_ [^b]: Psalm 73:7 Tg. _face bulges;_ LXX, Syr., Vg. _iniquity bulges_ [^c]: Psalm 73:8 Proudly [^d]: Psalm 73:13 _kept my heart pure in vain_ [^e]: Psalm 73:16 _troublesome in my eyes_ [^f]: Psalm 73:21 Lit. _pierced in my kidneys_ [^g]: Psalm 73:26 Lit. _rock_ [^h]: Psalm 73:27 Are unfaithful to You
