---
Aliases: [Psalms 86]
previous: ['Ps 85']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 87']
---
# Psalms 86

***


###### 1 
Bow down Your ear, O Lord, hear me; For I _am_ poor and needy. 

###### 2 
Preserve my life, for I _am_ holy; You are my God; Save Your servant who trusts in You! 

###### 3 
Be merciful to me, O Lord, For I cry to You all day long. 

###### 4 
Rejoice the soul of Your servant, For to You, O Lord, I lift up my soul. 

###### 5 
For You, Lord, _are_ good, and ready to forgive, And abundant in mercy to all those who call upon You. 

###### 6 
Give ear, O Lord, to my prayer; And attend to the voice of my supplications. 

###### 7 
In the day of my trouble I will call upon You, For You will answer me. 

###### 8 
Among the gods _there is_ none like You, O Lord; Nor _are there any works_ like Your works. 

###### 9 
All nations whom You have made Shall come and worship before You, O Lord, And shall glorify Your name. 

###### 10 
For You _are_ great, and do wondrous things; You alone _are_ God. 

###### 11 
Teach me Your way, O Lord; I will walk in Your truth; Unite my heart to fear Your name. 

###### 12 
I will praise You, O Lord my God, with all my heart, And I will glorify Your name forevermore. 

###### 13 
For great _is_ Your mercy toward me, And You have delivered my soul from the depths of Sheol. 

###### 14 
O God, the proud have risen against me, And a mob of violent _men_ have sought my life, And have not set You before them. 

###### 15 
But You, O Lord, _are_ a God full of compassion, and gracious, Longsuffering and abundant in mercy and truth. 

###### 16 
Oh, turn to me, and have mercy on me! Give Your strength to Your servant, And save the son of Your maidservant. 

###### 17 
Show me a sign for good, That those who hate me may see _it_ and be ashamed, Because You, Lord, have helped me and comforted me.
