---
Aliases: [Psalms 82]
previous: ['Ps 81']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 83']
---
# Psalms 82

***


###### 1 
God stands in the congregation of [^a]the mighty; He judges among the [^b]gods. 

###### 2 
How long will you judge unjustly, And show partiality to the wicked? <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 3 
[^c]Defend the poor and fatherless; Do justice to the afflicted and needy. 

###### 4 
Deliver the poor and needy; Free _them_ from the hand of the wicked. 

###### 5 
They do not know, nor do they understand; They walk about in darkness; All the foundations of the earth are [^d]unstable. 

###### 6 
I said, "You _are_ [^e]gods, And all of you _are_ children of the Most High. 

###### 7 
But you shall die like men, And fall like one of the princes." 

###### 8 
Arise, O God, judge the earth; For You shall inherit all nations. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 82:1 Heb. _El,_ lit. _God_ [^b]: Psalm 82:1 Judges; Heb. _elohim,_ lit. _mighty ones_ or _gods_ [^c]: Psalm 82:3 _Vindicate_ [^d]: Psalm 82:5 _moved_ [^e]: Psalm 82:6 Judges; Heb. _elohim,_ lit. _mighty ones_ or _gods_
