---
Aliases: [Psalms 88]
previous: ['Ps 87']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 89']
---
# Psalms 88

***


###### 1 
O Lord, God of my salvation, I have cried out day and night before You. 

###### 2 
Let my prayer come before You; Incline Your ear to my cry. 

###### 3 
For my soul is full of troubles, And my life draws near to the grave. 

###### 4 
I am counted with those who go down to the pit; I am like a man _who has_ no strength, 

###### 5 
Adrift among the dead, Like the slain who lie in the grave, Whom You remember no more, And who are cut off from Your hand. 

###### 6 
You have laid me in the lowest pit, In darkness, in the depths. 

###### 7 
Your wrath lies heavy upon me, And You have afflicted _me_ with all Your waves. Selah_ 

###### 8 
You have put away my acquaintances far from me; You have made me an abomination to them; _I am_ shut up, and I cannot get out; 

###### 9 
My eye wastes away because of affliction. Lord, I have called daily upon You; I have stretched out my hands to You. 

###### 10 
Will You work wonders for the dead? Shall the dead arise _and_ praise You? Selah_ 

###### 11 
Shall Your lovingkindness be declared in the grave? _Or_ Your faithfulness in the place of destruction? 

###### 12 
Shall Your wonders be known in the dark? And Your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness? 

###### 13 
But to You I have cried out, O Lord, And in the morning my prayer comes before You. 

###### 14 
Lord, why do You cast off my soul? _Why_ do You hide Your face from me? 

###### 15 
I _have been_ afflicted and ready to die from _my_ youth; I suffer Your terrors; I am distraught. 

###### 16 
Your fierce wrath has gone over me; Your terrors have cut me off. 

###### 17 
They came around me all day long like water; They engulfed me altogether. 

###### 18 
Loved one and friend You have put far from me, _And_ my acquaintances into darkness.
