---
Aliases: [Psalms 83]
previous: ['Ps 82']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 84']
---
# Psalms 83

***


###### 1 
Do not keep silent, O God! Do not hold Your peace, And do not be still, O God! 

###### 2 
For behold, Your enemies make a tumult; And those who hate You have lifted up their head. 

###### 3 
They have taken crafty counsel against Your people, And consulted together against Your sheltered ones. 

###### 4 
They have said, "Come, and let us cut them off from _being_ a nation, That the name of Israel may be remembered no more." 

###### 5 
For they have consulted together with one consent; They form a confederacy against You: 

###### 6 
The tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites; Moab and the Hagrites; 

###### 7 
Gebal, Ammon, and Amalek; Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre; 

###### 8 
Assyria also has joined with them; They have helped the children of Lot. Selah_ 

###### 9 
Deal with them as _with_ Midian, As _with_ Sisera, As _with_ Jabin at the Brook Kishon, 

###### 10 
Who perished at En Dor, _Who_ became _as_ refuse on the earth. 

###### 11 
Make their nobles like Oreb and like Zeeb, Yes, all their princes like Zebah and Zalmunna, 

###### 12 
Who said, "Let us take for ourselves The pastures of God for a possession." 

###### 13 
O my God, make them like the whirling dust, Like the chaff before the wind! 

###### 14 
As the fire burns the woods, And as the flame sets the mountains on fire, 

###### 15 
So pursue them with Your tempest, And frighten them with Your storm. 

###### 16 
Fill their faces with shame, That they may seek Your name, O Lord. 

###### 17 
Let them be confounded and dismayed forever; Yes, let them be put to shame and perish, 

###### 18 
That they may know that You, whose name alone _is_ the Lord, _Are_ the Most High over all the earth.
