---
Aliases: [Psalms 80]
previous: ['Ps 79']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 81']
---
# Psalms 80

***


###### 1 
Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, You who lead Joseph like a flock; You who dwell _between_ the cherubim, shine forth! 

###### 2 
Before Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasseh, Stir up Your strength, And come _and_ save us! 

###### 3 
Restore us, O God; Cause Your face to shine, And we shall be saved! 

###### 4 
O Lord God of hosts, How long will You be angry Against the prayer of Your people? 

###### 5 
You have fed them with the bread of tears, And given them tears to drink in great measure. 

###### 6 
You have made us a strife to our neighbors, And our enemies laugh among themselves. 

###### 7 
Restore us, O God of hosts; Cause Your face to shine, And we shall be saved! 

###### 8 
You have brought a vine out of Egypt; You have cast out the [^c]nations, and planted it. 

###### 9 
You prepared _room_ for it, And caused it to take deep root, And it filled the land. 

###### 10 
The hills were covered with its shadow, And the [^d]mighty cedars with its boughs. 

###### 11 
She sent out her boughs to [^e]the Sea, And her branches to [^f]the River. 

###### 12 
Why have You broken down her [^g]hedges, So that all who pass by the way pluck her _fruit?_ 

###### 13 
The boar out of the woods uproots it, And the wild beast of the field devours it. 

###### 14 
Return, we beseech You, O God of hosts; Look down from heaven and see, And visit this vine 

###### 15 
And the vineyard which Your right hand has planted, And the branch _that_ You made strong for Yourself. 

###### 16 
_It is_ burned with fire, _it is_ cut down; They perish at the rebuke of Your countenance. 

###### 17 
Let Your hand be upon the man of Your right hand, Upon the son of man _whom_ You made strong for Yourself. 

###### 18 
Then we will not turn back from You; Revive us, and we will call upon Your name. 

###### 19 
Restore us, O Lord God of hosts; Cause Your face to shine, And we shall be saved! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 80:1 Heb. _Shoshannim_ [^b]: Psalm 80:1 Heb. _Eduth_ [^c]: Psalm 80:8 _Gentiles_ [^d]: Psalm 80:10 Lit. _cedars of God_ [^e]: Psalm 80:11 The Mediterranean [^f]: Psalm 80:11 The Euphrates [^g]: Psalm 80:12 _walls_ or _fences_
