---
Aliases: [Psalms 96]
previous: ['Ps 95']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 97']
---
# Psalms 96

***


###### 1 
Oh, sing to the Lord a new song! Sing to the Lord, all the earth. 

###### 2 
Sing to the Lord, bless His name; Proclaim the good news of His salvation from day to day. 

###### 3 
Declare His glory among the [^a]nations, His wonders among all peoples. 

###### 4 
For the Lord _is_ great and greatly to be praised; He _is_ to be feared above all gods. 

###### 5 
For all the gods of the peoples _are_ idols, But the Lord made the heavens. 

###### 6 
Honor and majesty _are_ before Him; Strength and beauty _are_ in His sanctuary. 

###### 7 
Give[^b] to the Lord, O families of the peoples, Give to the Lord glory and strength. 

###### 8 
[^c]Give to the Lord the glory _due_ His name; Bring an offering, and come into His courts. 

###### 9 
Oh, worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness! Tremble before Him, all the earth. 

###### 10 
Say among the [^d]nations, "The Lord reigns; The world also is firmly established, It shall not be [^e]moved; He shall judge the peoples righteously." 

###### 11 
Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad; Let the sea roar, and [^f]all its fullness; 

###### 12 
Let the field be joyful, and all that _is_ in it. Then all the trees of the woods will rejoice 

###### 13 
before the Lord. For He is coming, for He is coming to judge the earth. He shall judge the world with righteousness, And the peoples with His truth. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 96:3 _Gentiles_ [^b]: Psalm 96:7 _Ascribe_ [^c]: Psalm 96:8 _Ascribe_ [^d]: Psalm 96:10 _Gentiles_ [^e]: Psalm 96:10 _shaken_ [^f]: Psalm 96:11 _all that is in it_
