---
Aliases: [Psalms 97]
previous: ['Ps 96']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 98']
---
# Psalms 97

***


###### 1 
The Lord reigns; Let the earth rejoice; Let the multitude of [^a]isles be glad! 

###### 2 
Clouds and darkness surround Him; Righteousness and justice _are_ the foundation of His throne. 

###### 3 
A fire goes before Him, And burns up His enemies round about. 

###### 4 
His lightnings light the world; The earth sees and trembles. 

###### 5 
The mountains melt like wax at the presence of the Lord, At the presence of the Lord of the whole earth. 

###### 6 
The heavens declare His righteousness, And all the peoples see His glory. 

###### 7 
Let all be put to shame who serve carved images, Who boast of idols. Worship Him, all _you_ gods. 

###### 8 
Zion hears and is glad, And the daughters of Judah rejoice Because of Your judgments, O Lord. 

###### 9 
For You, Lord, _are_ most high above all the earth; You are exalted far above all gods. 

###### 10 
You who love the Lord, hate evil! He preserves the souls of His saints; He delivers them out of the hand of the wicked. 

###### 11 
Light is sown for the righteous, And gladness for the upright in heart. 

###### 12 
Rejoice in the Lord, you righteous, And give thanks [^b]at the remembrance of [^c]His holy name. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 97:1 Or _coastlands_ [^b]: Psalm 97:12 Or _for the memory_ [^c]: Psalm 97:12 Or _His holiness_
