---
Aliases: [Psalms 92]
previous: ['Ps 91']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 93']
---
# Psalms 92

***


###### 1 
_It is_ good to give thanks to the Lord, And to sing praises to Your name, O Most High; 

###### 2 
To declare Your lovingkindness in the morning, And Your faithfulness every night, 

###### 3 
On an instrument of ten strings, On the lute, And on the harp, With harmonious sound. 

###### 4 
For You, Lord, have made me glad through Your work; I will triumph in the works of Your hands. 

###### 5 
O Lord, how great are Your works! Your thoughts are very deep. 

###### 6 
A senseless man does not know, Nor does a fool understand this. 

###### 7 
When the wicked [^a]spring up like grass, And when all the workers of iniquity flourish, _It is_ that they may be destroyed forever. 

###### 8 
But You, Lord, _are_ on high forevermore. 

###### 9 
For behold, Your enemies, O Lord, For behold, Your enemies shall perish; All the workers of iniquity shall be scattered. 

###### 10 
But my [^b]horn You have exalted like a wild ox; I have been anointed with fresh oil. 

###### 11 
My eye also has seen _my desire_ on my enemies; My ears hear _my desire_ on the wicked Who rise up against me. 

###### 12 
The righteous shall flourish like a palm tree, He shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon. 

###### 13 
Those who are planted in the house of the Lord Shall flourish in the courts of our God. 

###### 14 
They shall still bear fruit in old age; They shall be [^c]fresh and [^d]flourishing, 

###### 15 
To declare that the Lord is upright; _He is_ my rock, and _there is_ no unrighteousness in Him. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 92:7 _sprout_ [^b]: Psalm 92:10 Strength [^c]: Psalm 92:14 Full of oil or sap, lit. _fat_ [^d]: Psalm 92:14 _green_
