---
Aliases: [Psalms 91]
previous: ['Ps 90']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 92']
---
# Psalms 91

***


###### 1 
He who dwells in the secret place of the Most High Shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. 

###### 2 
I will say of the Lord, "_He is_ my refuge and my fortress; My God, in Him I will trust." 

###### 3 
Surely He shall deliver you from the snare of the [^a]fowler _And_ from the perilous pestilence. 

###### 4 
He shall cover you with His feathers, And under His wings you shall take refuge; His truth _shall be your_ shield and [^b]buckler. 

###### 5 
You shall not be afraid of the terror by night, _Nor_ of the arrow _that_ flies by day, 

###### 6 
_Nor_ of the pestilence _that_ walks in darkness, _Nor_ of the destruction _that_ lays waste at noonday. 

###### 7 
A thousand may fall at your side, And ten thousand at your right hand; _But_ it shall not come near you. 

###### 8 
Only with your eyes shall you look, And see the reward of the wicked. 

###### 9 
Because you have made the Lord, _who is_ my refuge, _Even_ the Most High, your dwelling place, 

###### 10 
No evil shall befall you, Nor shall any plague come near your dwelling; 

###### 11 
For He shall give His angels charge over you, To keep you in all your ways. 

###### 12 
In _their_ hands they shall [^c]bear you up, Lest you [^d]dash your foot against a stone. 

###### 13 
You shall tread upon the lion and the cobra, The young lion and the serpent you shall trample underfoot. 

###### 14 
"Because he has set his love upon Me, therefore I will deliver him; I will [^e]set him on high, because he has known My name. 

###### 15 
He shall call upon Me, and I will answer him; I _will be_ with him in trouble; I will deliver him and honor him. 

###### 16 
With [^f]long life I will satisfy him, And show him My salvation."
