---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 27]
previous: ['2 Chr 26']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 28']
---
# 2 Chronicles 27

***








###### 1 



Jotham was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned for sixteen years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Jerushah the daughter of Zadok. 







###### 2 



He did what was right in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father Uzziah had done; however he did not enter the temple of the LORD. But the people continued acting corruptly. 







###### 3 



He built the upper gate of the house of the LORD, and he built the wall of Ophel extensively. 







###### 4 



Moreover, he built cities in the hill country of Judah, and he built fortresses and towers on the wooded _hills_. 







###### 5 



He fought with the king of the Ammonites and prevailed over them so that during that year the Ammonites gave him [^a]a hundred talents of silver, [^b]ten thousand kors of wheat, and ten thousand of barley. The Ammonites also paid him this _amount_ in the second year and in the third. 







###### 6 



So Jotham became powerful because he directed his ways before the LORD his God. 







###### 7 



Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, all his wars and his ways, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah. 







###### 8 



He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for sixteen years. 







###### 9 



And Jotham [^c]lay down with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David; and his son Ahaz became king in his place. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 27:5 About 3.75 tons or 3.4 metric tons [^b]: 2 Chronicles 27:5 About 77,000 cubic feet or 2,180 cubic meters [^c]: 2 Chronicles 27:9 I.e., died
