---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 35]
previous: ['2 Chr 34']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 36']
---
# 2 Chronicles 35

***








###### 1 



Then Josiah celebrated the Passover to the LORD in Jerusalem, and they slaughtered the Passover _animals_ on the fourteenth _day_ of the first month. 







###### 2 



He appointed the priests to their offices and encouraged them in the service of the house of the LORD. 







###### 3 



He also said to the Levites who taught all Israel _and_ who were holy to the LORD, "Put the holy ark in the house which Solomon the son of David king of Israel built; it will not be a burden on _your_ shoulders. Now serve the LORD your God and His people Israel. 







###### 4 



Prepare _yourselves_ by your fathers' households in your divisions, according to the writing of David king of Israel and according to the writing of his son Solomon. 







###### 5 



Furthermore, stand in the holy place according to the sections of the fathers' households of your countrymen, the [^a]lay people, and according to the Levites, by division of a father's household. 







###### 6 



Now slaughter the Passover _animals_, keep one another consecrated, and prepare for your countrymen to act in accordance with the word of the LORD by Moses." 







###### 7 



Josiah contributed to the lay people, to all who were present, flocks of lambs and young goats, all for the Passover offerings, numbering thirty thousand, plus three thousand bulls; these were from the king's property. 







###### 8 



His officers also contributed a [^b]voluntary offering to the people, the priests, and the Levites. Hilkiah, Zechariah, and Jehiel, the officials of the house of God, gave the priests 2,600 _from the flocks_ and three hundred bulls, for the Passover offerings. 







###### 9 



Conaniah also, and his brothers Shemaiah and Nethanel, and Hashabiah and Jeiel and Jozabad, the officers of the Levites, contributed five thousand _from the flocks_ and five hundred bulls to the Levites for the Passover offerings. 







###### 10 



So the service was prepared, and the priests stood at their positions and the Levites by their divisions according to the king's command. 







###### 11 



[^c]They slaughtered the Passover _animals_, and while the priests [^d]sprinkled the blood _received_ from their hand, the Levites skinned _the animals_. 







###### 12 



Then they removed the burnt offerings so that _they_ might give them to the sections of the fathers' households of the lay people to present to the LORD, as it is written in the Book of Moses. _They did_ this with the bulls as well. 







###### 13 



So they roasted the Passover _animals_ on the fire according to the ordinance, and they boiled the holy things in pots, in kettles, and in pans and carried _them_ quickly to all the lay people. 







###### 14 



Afterward they prepared for themselves and for the priests, because the priests, the sons of Aaron, _were_ offering the burnt offerings and the fat until night; so the Levites prepared for themselves and for the priests, the sons of Aaron. 







###### 15 



The singers, the sons of Asaph, _were_ also at their positions according to the command of David, Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun the king's seer; and the gatekeepers at each gate did not have to leave their service, because their kinsmen the Levites prepared for them. 







###### 16 



So all the service of the LORD was prepared on that day to celebrate the Passover, and to offer burnt offerings on the altar of the LORD according to the command of King Josiah. 







###### 17 



And the sons of Israel who were present celebrated the Passover at that time, and the Feast of Unleavened Bread for seven days. 







###### 18 



There had not been a Passover celebrated like it in Israel since the days of Samuel the prophet; nor had any of the kings of Israel celebrated such a Passover as Josiah did with the priests, the Levites, all Judah and Israel who were present, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 







###### 19 



In the eighteenth year of Josiah's reign this Passover was celebrated. ## Josiah Dies in Battle 







###### 20 



After all this, when Josiah had set the [^e]temple in order, Neco king of Egypt came up to wage war at Carchemish on the Euphrates, and Josiah went out to engage him. 







###### 21 



But [^f]Neco sent messengers to him, saying, "[^g]What business do you have with me, King of Judah? _I am_ not _coming_ against you today, but against the house with which I am at war, and God has told me to hurry. For your own sake, stop _interfering with_ God who is with me, so that He does not destroy you." 







###### 22 



However, Josiah would not turn [^h]away from him, but disguised himself in order to fight against him; nor did he listen to the words of Neco from the mouth of God, but he came to wage war on the plain of Megiddo. 







###### 23 



The archers shot King Josiah, and the king said to his servants, "Take me away, for I am badly wounded." 







###### 24 



So his servants took him out of the chariot and carried him on the second chariot which he had, and brought him to Jerusalem [^i]where he died and was buried in the tombs of his fathers. All Judah and Jerusalem mourned for Josiah. 







###### 25 



Then Jeremiah chanted a song of mourning for Josiah. And all the male and female singers speak about Josiah in their songs of mourning to this day. And they made them an ordinance in Israel; behold, they are also written in the Lamentations. 







###### 26 



Now the rest of the acts of Josiah and his deeds of devotion as written in the Law of the LORD, 







###### 27 



and his acts, the first to the last, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 35:5 Lit _sons of the people_, and so throughout the ch [^b]: 2 Chronicles 35:8 Or _freewill offering_ [^c]: 2 Chronicles 35:11 I.e., the Levites [^d]: 2 Chronicles 35:11 As in LXX; MT _sprinkled from their hand_ [^e]: 2 Chronicles 35:20 Lit _house_ [^f]: 2 Chronicles 35:21 Lit _he_ [^g]: 2 Chronicles 35:21 Lit _What to me and to you_, an ancient idiom [^h]: 2 Chronicles 35:22 Lit _his face_ [^i]: 2 Chronicles 35:24 Lit _and_
