---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 26]
previous: ['2 Chr 25']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 27']
---
# 2 Chronicles 26

***








###### 1 



Now all the people of Judah took [^a]Uzziah, who _was_ sixteen years old, and made him king in place of his father Amaziah. 







###### 2 



He built Eloth and restored it to Judah after the king [^b]lay down with his fathers. 







###### 3 



Uzziah was sixteen years old when he became king, and he reigned for fifty-two years in Jerusalem; and his mother's name was [^c]Jechiliah of Jerusalem. 







###### 4 



He did what was right in the sight of the LORD, in accordance with everything that his father Amaziah had done. 







###### 5 



He continued to seek God in the days of Zechariah, who had understanding [^d]through the vision of God; and [^e]as long as he sought the LORD, God made him successful. ## Uzziah Succeeds in War 







###### 6 



Now he went out and fought against the Philistines, and broke down the wall of Gath, the wall of Jabneh, and the wall of Ashdod; and he built cities in _the area of_ Ashdod and among the Philistines. 







###### 7 



God helped him against the Philistines, and against the Arabians who lived in Gur-baal, and the Meunites. 







###### 8 



The Ammonites gave tribute to Uzziah, and his [^f]fame extended to the border of Egypt, for he became very strong. 







###### 9 



Moreover, Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the Corner Gate, the Valley Gate, and at the corner buttress, and he fortified them. 







###### 10 



He also built towers in the wilderness and carved out many cisterns, for he had much livestock, both in the [^g]lowland and in the plain. _He also had_ plowmen and vinedressers in the hill country and the fertile fields, for he loved the soil. 







###### 11 



Moreover, Uzziah had an army ready for battle, which [^h]entered combat by divisions according to the number of their muster, [^i]recorded by Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the official, under the direction of Hananiah, one of the king's officers. 







###### 12 



The total number of the heads of the [^j]households, of valiant warriors, was 2,600. 







###### 13 



Under their direction was an army of 307,500, who could wage war with great power, to help the king against the enemy. 







###### 14 



Moreover, Uzziah prepared [^k]for all the army shields, spears, helmets, body armor, bows, and slingstones. 







###### 15 



In Jerusalem he made machines _of war_ invented by skillful workmen to be on the towers and the corners, for the purpose of shooting arrows and great stones. So his [^l]fame spread far, for he was marvelously helped until he _was_ strong. ## Pride Is Uzziah's Undoing 







###### 16 



But when he became strong, his heart was so [^m]proud that he acted corruptly, and he was untrue to the LORD his God, for he entered the temple of the LORD to burn incense on the altar of incense. 







###### 17 



Then Azariah the priest entered after him, and with him eighty priests of the LORD, valiant men. 







###### 18 



They opposed Uzziah the king and said to him, "It is not for you, Uzziah, to burn incense to the LORD, but for the priests, the sons of Aaron who have been consecrated to burn incense. Leave the sanctuary, for you have been untrue and will have no honor from the LORD God." 







###### 19 



But Uzziah, with a censer in his hand for burning incense, was enraged; and while he was enraged with the priests, leprosy broke out on his forehead in the presence of the priests in the house of the LORD, beside the altar of incense. 







###### 20 



Azariah the chief priest and all the priests looked at him, and behold, he _was_ leprous on his forehead; and they quickly removed him from there, and he himself also hurried to get out because the LORD had stricken him. 







###### 21 



King Uzziah had leprosy to the day of his death; and he lived in a separate house, afflicted _as he was_ with leprosy, for he was cut off from the house of the LORD. And his son Jotham _was_ over the king's house, judging the people of the land. 







###### 22 



Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah, the first to the last, the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amoz, has written. 







###### 23 



So Uzziah [^n]lay down with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the field of the grave which belonged to the kings, for they said, "He had leprosy." And his son Jotham became king in his place. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 26:1 In 2 Kin 14:21, _Azariah_ [^b]: 2 Chronicles 26:2 I.e., died [^c]: 2 Chronicles 26:3 In 2 Kin 15:2, _Jecoliah_ [^d]: 2 Chronicles 26:5 Many mss _in the fear of God_ [^e]: 2 Chronicles 26:5 Lit _in the days of his seeking_ [^f]: 2 Chronicles 26:8 Lit _name went to the entering of Egypt_ [^g]: 2 Chronicles 26:10 Heb _shephelah_ [^h]: 2 Chronicles 26:11 Lit _was going out to_ [^i]: 2 Chronicles 26:11 Lit _by the hand of_ [^j]: 2 Chronicles 26:12 Lit _fathers_ [^k]: 2 Chronicles 26:14 Lit _for them, for all_ [^l]: 2 Chronicles 26:15 Lit _name_ [^m]: 2 Chronicles 26:16 Lit _high_ [^n]: 2 Chronicles 26:23 I.e., died
