---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 17]
previous: ['2 Chr 16']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 18']
---
# 2 Chronicles 17

***








###### 1 



His son Jehoshaphat then became king in his place, and he proved himself strong over Israel. 







###### 2 



He placed troops in all the fortified cities of Judah, and placed garrisons in the land of Judah and in the cities of Ephraim which his father Asa had captured. ## His Good Reign 







###### 3 



And the LORD was with Jehoshaphat because he [^a]followed the example of his father David's earlier days and did not seek the Baals, 







###### 4 



but sought the God of his father, [^b]followed His commandments, and did not _act_ as Israel did. 







###### 5 



So the LORD established the kingdom in his [^c]control, and all Judah gave tribute to Jehoshaphat, and he had great riches and honor. 







###### 6 



[^d]He took great pride in the ways of the LORD, and again removed the high places and the [^e]Asherim from Judah. 







###### 7 



Then in the third year of his reign he sent his officials, Ben-hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel, and Micaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah; 







###### 8 



and with them the Levites, Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah, and Tobadonijah, the Levites; and with them the priests Elishama and Jehoram. 







###### 9 



They taught in Judah, _having_ the Book of the Law of the LORD with them; and they went throughout the cities of Judah and taught among the people. 







###### 10 



Now the dread of the LORD was on all the kingdoms of the lands which _were_ around Judah, so that they did not make war against Jehoshaphat. 







###### 11 



Some of the Philistines brought gifts and silver as tribute to Jehoshaphat; the Arabians also brought him flocks, 7,700 rams and 7,700 male goats. 







###### 12 



So Jehoshaphat grew greater and greater, and he built fortresses and storage cities in Judah. 







###### 13 



He had large supplies in the cities of Judah, and warriors, valiant mighty men, in Jerusalem. 







###### 14 



This was their muster according to their fathers' households: of Judah, commanders of thousands, Adnah _was_ the commander, and with him three hundred thousand valiant warriors; 







###### 15 



and next to him _was_ Johanan the commander, and with him 280,000; 







###### 16 



and next to him Amasiah the son of Zichri, who volunteered for the LORD, and with him two hundred thousand valiant warriors; 







###### 17 



and of Benjamin, Eliada, a valiant warrior, and with him two hundred thousand armed with bow and shield; 







###### 18 



and next to him Jehozabad, and with him 180,000 equipped for war. 







###### 19 



These are the ones who served the king, apart from those whom the king put in the fortified cities throughout Judah. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 17:3 Lit _walked in the earlier ways of his father_ [^b]: 2 Chronicles 17:4 Lit _walked in_ [^c]: 2 Chronicles 17:5 Lit _hand_ [^d]: 2 Chronicles 17:6 Lit _his heart was high_ [^e]: 2 Chronicles 17:6 I.e., wooden symbols of a female deity (Asherah)
