---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 33]
previous: ['2 Chr 32']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 34']
---
# 2 Chronicles 33

***








###### 1 



Manasseh was twelve years old when he became king, and he reigned for fifty-five years in Jerusalem. 







###### 2 



He did evil in the sight of the LORD according to the abominations of the nations whom the LORD dispossessed before the sons of Israel. 







###### 3 



For he rebuilt the high places which his father Hezekiah had torn down; he also set up altars for the Baals and made [^a]Asherim, and he worshiped all the heavenly [^b]lights and served them. 







###### 4 



He built altars in the house of the LORD of which the LORD had said, "My name shall be in Jerusalem forever." 







###### 5 



He built altars for all the heavenly [^c]lights in the two courtyards of the house of the LORD. 







###### 6 



He also made his sons pass through the fire in the Valley of Ben-hinnom; and he practiced witchcraft, used divination, practiced sorcery, and dealt with mediums and spiritists. He did much evil in the sight of the LORD, provoking Him to anger. 







###### 7 



Then he put the carved image of the idol which he had made in the house of God, of which God had said to David and his son Solomon, "In this house and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen from all the tribes of Israel, I will put My name forever; 







###### 8 



and I will not remove the foot of Israel again from the land which I have appointed for your fathers, if only they will take care to do everything that I have commanded them according to all the Law, the statutes, and the ordinances _given_ through Moses." 







###### 9 



So Manasseh encouraged Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to do more evil than the nations whom the LORD destroyed before the sons of Israel. ## Manasseh's Idolatry Rebuked 







###### 10 



So the LORD spoke to Manasseh and his people, but they paid no attention. 







###### 11 



Therefore the LORD brought the commanders of the army of the king of Assyria against them, and they captured Manasseh with hooks, bound him with bronze _chains_, and led him to Babylon. 







###### 12 



When he was in distress, he appeased the LORD his God and humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers. 







###### 13 



When he prayed to Him, He was moved by him and heard his pleading, and brought him back to Jerusalem to his kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that the LORD _alone is_ God. 







###### 14 



Now after this he built the outer wall of the city of David on the west side of Gihon, in the valley, up to the entrance of the Fish Gate; and he encircled the Ophel _with it_ and made it very high. Then he put army commanders in all the fortified cities in Judah. 







###### 15 



He also removed the foreign gods and the idol from the house of the LORD, as well as all the altars which he had built on the mountain of the house of the LORD and in Jerusalem, and he threw _them_ outside the city. 







###### 16 



He set up the altar of the LORD and sacrificed peace offerings and thanksgiving offerings on it; and he ordered Judah to serve the LORD God of Israel. 







###### 17 



However, the people still sacrificed on the high places, _although_ only to the LORD their God. 







###### 18 



Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh and his prayer to his God, and the words of the seers who spoke to him in the name of the LORD God of Israel, behold, they are among the records of the kings of Israel. 







###### 19 



His prayer also and _how God_ was moved by him, and all his sin, his unfaithfulness, and the sites on which he built high places and erected the [^d]Asherim and the carved images, before he humbled himself, behold, they are written in the records of [^e]Hozai. 







###### 20 



So Manasseh [^f]lay down with his fathers, and they buried him in his own house. And his son Amon became king in his place. ## Amon Becomes King in Judah 







###### 21 



Amon _was_ twenty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned for two years in Jerusalem. 







###### 22 



He did evil in the sight of the LORD, just as his father Manasseh had done, and Amon sacrificed to all the carved images which his father Manasseh had made, and he served them. 







###### 23 



Furthermore, he did not humble himself before the LORD as his father Manasseh had [^g]done, but Amon multiplied _his_ guilt. 







###### 24 



Finally, his servants conspired against him and put him to death in his own house. 







###### 25 



But the people of the land [^h]killed all the conspirators against King Amon, and the people of the land made his son Josiah king in his place. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 33:3 I.e., wooden symbols of a female deity (Asherah) [^b]: 2 Chronicles 33:3 Lit _host_ [^c]: 2 Chronicles 33:5 Lit _host_ [^d]: 2 Chronicles 33:19 I.e., wooden symbols of a female deity (Asherah) [^e]: 2 Chronicles 33:19 LXX _seers_ [^f]: 2 Chronicles 33:20 I.e., died [^g]: 2 Chronicles 33:23 Lit _humbled himself_ [^h]: 2 Chronicles 33:25 Lit _struck_
