---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 19]
previous: ['2 Chr 18']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 20']
---
# 2 Chronicles 19

***








###### 1 



Then Jehoshaphat the king of Judah returned in safety to his house in Jerusalem. 







###### 2 



And Jehu the son of Hanani the seer went out to meet him and said to King Jehoshaphat, "Should you help the wicked and love those who hate the LORD, and [^a]by doing so _bring_ wrath on yourself from the LORD? 







###### 3 



But [^b]there is _some_ good in you, for you have removed the [^c]Asheroth from the land and you have set your heart to seek God." 







###### 4 



So Jehoshaphat lived in Jerusalem and went out again among the people from Beersheba to the hill country of Ephraim, and brought them back to the LORD, the God of their fathers. ## Reforms Instituted 







###### 5 



He appointed judges in the land in all the fortified cities of Judah, city by city. 







###### 6 



He said to the judges, "Consider what you are doing, for you do not judge for mankind but for the LORD who is with you [^d]when you render judgment. 







###### 7 



Now then, let the fear of the LORD be upon you; be careful [^e]about what you do, for [^f]the LORD our God will have no part in injustice or partiality, or in the taking of a bribe." 







###### 8 



In Jerusalem Jehoshaphat also appointed some of the Levites and priests, and some of the heads of the fathers' _households_ of Israel, for the judgment of the LORD, and [^g]to judge disputes among the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 







###### 9 



Then he commanded them, saying, "This is what you shall do in the fear of the LORD, faithfully and wholeheartedly. 







###### 10 



Whenever any dispute comes to you from your countrymen who live in their cities, between blood and blood, between law and commandment, statutes and ordinances, you shall warn them so that they will not be guilty before the LORD, and wrath will _not_ come on you and your countrymen. This you shall do and you will not be guilty. 







###### 11 



Behold, Amariah the chief priest will be over you in every matter [^h]that pertains to the LORD, and Zebadiah the son of Ishmael, the ruler of the house of Judah, in all that pertains to the king. Also the Levites shall be officers before you. [^i]Act resolutely, and may the LORD be with the upright." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 19:2 Lit _by this_ [^b]: 2 Chronicles 19:3 Lit _good things are found_ [^c]: 2 Chronicles 19:3 I.e., wooden symbols of a female deity [^d]: 2 Chronicles 19:6 Lit _in the word of judgment_ [^e]: 2 Chronicles 19:7 Lit _and do_ [^f]: 2 Chronicles 19:7 Lit _it is not with the _Lord_ our God_ [^g]: 2 Chronicles 19:8 As in ancient versions; MT _for the dispute. And they returned to Jerusalem_; or _And they lived in Jerusalem_ [^h]: 2 Chronicles 19:11 Lit _of_ [^i]: 2 Chronicles 19:11 Lit _Be strong and do_
