---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 30]
previous: ['2 Chr 29']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 31']
---
# 2 Chronicles 30

***








###### 1 



Now Hezekiah sent _word_ to all Israel and Judah and also wrote letters to Ephraim and Manasseh, that they should come to the house of the LORD in Jerusalem to [^a]celebrate the Passover to the LORD God of Israel. 







###### 2 



For the king and his princes and all the assembly in Jerusalem had decided to celebrate the Passover in the second month, 







###### 3 



since they could not celebrate it at that time, because the priests had not consecrated themselves in sufficient numbers, nor had the people been gathered to Jerusalem. 







###### 4 



So the [^b]decision was right in the sight of the king and all the assembly. 







###### 5 



So they established a decree to circulate a [^c]proclamation throughout Israel from Beersheba to Dan, that they are to come to celebrate the Passover to the LORD God of Israel in Jerusalem. For they had not celebrated _it_ in great numbers as was written. 







###### 6 



The [^d]couriers went throughout Israel and Judah with the letters from the hand of the king and his princes, even according to the command of the king, saying, "Sons of Israel, return to the LORD God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, that He may return to those of you who escaped _and_ are left from the [^e]hand of the kings of Assyria. 







###### 7 



Do not be like your fathers and your brothers, who were untrue to the LORD God of their fathers, so that He made them an object of horror, just as you see. 







###### 8 



Now do not stiffen your neck like your fathers, _but_ [^f]yield to the LORD and enter His sanctuary which He has consecrated forever, and serve the LORD your God, that His burning anger may turn away from you. 







###### 9 



For if you return to the LORD, your brothers and your sons _will find_ compassion in the presence of those who led them captive, and will return to this land. For the LORD your God is gracious and compassionate, and will not turn _His_ face away from you if you return to Him." 







###### 10 



So the [^g]couriers passed from city to city through the country of Ephraim and Manasseh, and as far as Zebulun, but they laughed at them with scorn and mocked them. 







###### 11 



Nevertheless, some men of Asher, Manasseh, and Zebulun humbled themselves and came to Jerusalem. 







###### 12 



The hand of God was also on Judah to give them one heart to do what the king and the princes commanded by the word of the LORD. ## Passover Reinstituted 







###### 13 



Now many people were gathered at Jerusalem to celebrate the Feast of Unleavened Bread in the second month, a very large assembly. 







###### 14 



They got up and removed the altars which _were_ in Jerusalem; they also removed all the incense altars and threw _them_ into the brook Kidron. 







###### 15 



Then they slaughtered the Passover _lambs_ on the fourteenth of the second month. And the priests and Levites were ashamed of themselves, and consecrated themselves and brought burnt offerings to the house of the LORD. 







###### 16 



They stood at their stations following their custom, according to the Law of Moses the man of God; the priests sprinkled the blood _which they received_ from the hand of the Levites. 







###### 17 



For _there were_ many in the assembly who had not consecrated themselves; therefore, the Levites _were_ in charge of the slaughter of the Passover _lambs_ for everyone who _was_ unclean, in order to consecrate _them_ to the LORD. 







###### 18 



For a multitude of the people, many from Ephraim and Manasseh, _and_ Issachar and Zebulun, had not purified themselves, yet they ate the Passover contrary to _what was_ written. For Hezekiah prayed for them, saying, "May the good LORD pardon 







###### 19 



everyone who prepares his heart to seek God, the LORD God of his fathers, though not according to the purification _rules_ of the sanctuary." 







###### 20 



So the LORD heard Hezekiah and healed the people. 







###### 21 



The sons of Israel present in Jerusalem celebrated the Feast of Unleavened Bread for seven days with great joy, and the Levites and the priests were praising the LORD day after day with loud instruments to the LORD. 







###### 22 



Then Hezekiah spoke [^h]encouragingly to all the Levites who showed good insight _in the things_ of the LORD. So they ate for the appointed seven days, sacrificing peace offerings and giving thanks to the LORD God of their fathers. 







###### 23 



Then the whole assembly decided to celebrate _the feast_ another seven days, so they celebrated the seven days with joy. 







###### 24 



For Hezekiah king of Judah had contributed to the assembly a thousand bulls and seven thousand sheep, and the princes had contributed to the assembly a thousand bulls and ten thousand sheep; and a large number of priests consecrated themselves. 







###### 25 



All the assembly of Judah rejoiced, with the priests and the Levites and all the assembly that came from Israel, both the strangers who came from the land of Israel and those living in Judah. 







###### 26 



So there was great joy in Jerusalem, because there was nothing like this in Jerusalem since the days of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel. 







###### 27 



Then the Levitical priests stood and blessed the people; and their voice was heard and their prayer came to His holy dwelling place, to heaven. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 30:1 Lit _do_, and so throughout the ch [^b]: 2 Chronicles 30:4 Lit _word_ [^c]: 2 Chronicles 30:5 Lit _voice_ [^d]: 2 Chronicles 30:6 Lit _runners_ [^e]: 2 Chronicles 30:6 Lit _palm_ [^f]: 2 Chronicles 30:8 Lit _give a hand_ [^g]: 2 Chronicles 30:10 Lit _runners_ [^h]: 2 Chronicles 30:22 Lit _to the heart of_
