---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 10]
previous: ['2 Chr 9']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 11']
---
# 2 Chronicles 10

***








###### 1 



Then Rehoboam went to Shechem, because all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king. 







###### 2 



When Jeroboam the son of Nebat heard _about it_ (he was in Egypt where he had fled from the presence of King Solomon), Jeroboam returned from Egypt. 







###### 3 



So they sent _word_ and summoned him. When Jeroboam and all Israel came, they spoke to Rehoboam, saying, 







###### 4 



"Your father made our yoke hard; but now, lighten the hard labor _imposed by_ your father and his heavy yoke which he put on us, and we will serve you." 







###### 5 



He said to them, "Return to me again in three days." So the people departed. 







###### 6 



And then King Rehoboam consulted with the elders who had [^a]served his father Solomon while he was still alive, saying, "How do you advise _me_ to answer this people?" 







###### 7 



They spoke to him, saying, "If you are kind to this people and please them and speak pleasant words to them, then they will be your servants always." 







###### 8 



But he ignored the advice of the elders which they had given him, and consulted with the young men who had grown up with him [^b]and served him. 







###### 9 



He said to them, "What advice do you give, so that we may answer this people, who have spoken to me, saying, 'Lighten the yoke which your father put on us'?" 







###### 10 



The young men who had grown up with him spoke to him, saying, "This is what you should say to the people who spoke to you, saying: 'Your father made our yoke heavy, but you make it lighter for us!' You should speak this way to them: 'My little finger is thicker than my father's waist! 







###### 11 



Now then, my father loaded you with a heavy yoke; yet I will add to your yoke. My father disciplined you with whips, but I _will discipline you_ with [^c]scorpions!'" 







###### 12 



So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam on the third day, just as the king had [^d]directed, saying, "Return to me on the third day." 







###### 13 



The king answered them harshly, and King Rehoboam ignored the advice of the elders. 







###### 14 



He spoke to them according to the advice of the young men, saying, "[^e]My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to it; my father disciplined you with whips, but I _will discipline you_ with [^f]scorpions." 







###### 15 



So the king did not listen to the people, because it was a turn of events from God so that the LORD might establish His word, which He spoke through Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat. 







###### 16 



When all Israel _saw_ that the king had not listened to them, the people replied to the king, saying, "What share do we have in David? _We have_ no inheritance in the son of Jesse. Everyone to your tents, Israel! Now look after your own house, David!" So all Israel went _away_ to their tents. 







###### 17 



But as for the sons of Israel who lived in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them. 







###### 18 



Then King Rehoboam sent Hadoram, who was in charge of the forced labor, and the sons of Israel stoned him [^g]to death. And King Rehoboam hurried to mount his chariot to flee to Jerusalem. 







###### 19 



So Israel has been in rebellion against the house of David to this day. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 10:6 Lit _stood before_ [^b]: 2 Chronicles 10:8 Lit _who stood before_ [^c]: 2 Chronicles 10:11 Prob. a brutal type of whip [^d]: 2 Chronicles 10:12 Lit _spoken_ [^e]: 2 Chronicles 10:14 Many mss _I have made_ [^f]: 2 Chronicles 10:14 Prob. a brutal type of whip [^g]: 2 Chronicles 10:18 Lit _with stones that he died_
