---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 12]
previous: ['2 Chr 11']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 13']
---
# 2 Chronicles 12

***








###### 1 



When the kingdom of Rehoboam was established and strong, he and all Israel with him abandoned the Law of the LORD. 







###### 2 



And it came about in King Rehoboam's fifth year, because they had been unfaithful to the LORD, that Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem 







###### 3 



with 1,200 chariots and sixty thousand horsemen. And the people who came with him from Egypt were innumerable: the Lubim, the Sukkiim, and the Ethiopians. 







###### 4 



And he captured the fortified cities of Judah and came as far as Jerusalem. 







###### 5 



Then Shemaiah the prophet came to Rehoboam and the princes of Judah who had gathered at Jerusalem because of Shishak, and he said to them, "This is what the LORD says: 'You have abandoned Me, so I also have abandoned you [^a]to Shishak.'" 







###### 6 



So the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves and said, "The LORD is righteous." 







###### 7 



When the LORD saw that they had humbled themselves, the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah, saying, "They have humbled themselves, _so_ I will not destroy them; and I will grant them a little deliverance, and My wrath will not be poured out on Jerusalem by means of Shishak. 







###### 8 



But they will become his slaves, so that they may learn _the difference between_ My service and the service of the kingdoms of the countries." ## Plunder Impoverishes Judah 







###### 9 



So Shishak king of Egypt went up against Jerusalem, and he took the treasures of the house of the LORD and the treasures of the king's palace. He took everything; he even took the gold shields which Solomon had made. 







###### 10 



Then King Rehoboam made shields of bronze in their place and committed them to the [^b]care of the commanders of the [^c]guards who guarded the entrance of the king's house. 







###### 11 



As often as the king entered the house of the LORD, the [^d]guards came and carried them and _then_ brought them back into the [^e]guards' room. 







###### 12 



And when he humbled himself, the anger of the LORD turned away from him, so as not to destroy _him_ completely; and conditions were also good in Judah. 







###### 13 



So King Rehoboam became powerful in Jerusalem and reigned _there_. For Rehoboam was forty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned for seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD had chosen from all the tribes of Israel, to put His name there. And his mother's name was Naamah the Ammonitess. 







###### 14 



But he did evil because he did not set his heart to seek the LORD. 







###### 15 



Now the acts of Rehoboam, from the first to the last, are they not written in the [^f]records of Shemaiah the prophet and of Iddo the seer, according to genealogical enrollment? And _there were_ wars between Rehoboam and Jeroboam continually. 







###### 16 



And Rehoboam [^g]lay down with his fathers and was buried in the city of David; and his son Abijah became king in his place. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 12:5 Lit _in the hand of_ [^b]: 2 Chronicles 12:10 Lit _hands_ [^c]: 2 Chronicles 12:10 Lit _runners_ [^d]: 2 Chronicles 12:11 Lit _runners_ [^e]: 2 Chronicles 12:11 Lit _runners_ [^f]: 2 Chronicles 12:15 Lit _words_ [^g]: 2 Chronicles 12:16 I.e., died
