---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 23]
previous: ['2 Chr 22']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 24']
---
# 2 Chronicles 23

***








###### 1 



Now in the seventh year, Jehoiada gathered his courage, and took captains of hundreds: Azariah the son of Jeroham, Ishmael the son of Johanan, Azariah the son of Obed, Maaseiah the son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat the son of Zichri, _and they entered_ into a covenant with him. 







###### 2 



And they went throughout Judah and gathered the Levites from all the cities of Judah, and the heads of the fathers' _households_ of Israel, and they came to Jerusalem. 







###### 3 



Then all the assembly made a covenant with the king in the house of God. And [^a]Jehoiada said to them, "Behold, the king's son shall reign, as the LORD has spoken concerning the sons of David. 







###### 4 



This is the thing which you shall do: a third of you, of the priests and Levites who come in on the Sabbath, _shall be_ gatekeepers, 







###### 5 



and a third _shall be_ at the king's house, and a third at the Gate of the Foundation; and all the people _shall be_ in the courtyards of the house of the LORD. 







###### 6 



But no one is to enter the house of the LORD except the priests and the ministering Levites; they may enter, for they are holy. And all the people are to keep the command of the LORD. 







###### 7 



The Levites will surround the king, each man with his weapons in his hand; and whoever enters the house is to be put to death. Therefore be with the king when he comes in and when he goes out." 







###### 8 



The Levites and all Judah did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded. And each one of them took his men who were to come in on the Sabbath, with those who were to go out on the Sabbath, for Jehoiada the priest did not dismiss _any of_ the divisions. 







###### 9 



Then Jehoiada the priest gave the captains of hundreds the spears and the shields and quivers which had been King David's, which were in the house of God. 







###### 10 



He stationed all the people, each man with his weapon in his hand, from the right [^b]side of the house to the left [^c]side of the house, by the altar and by the house, around the king. 







###### 11 



Then they brought out the king's son and put the crown on him, and _gave him_ the testimony and made him king. And Jehoiada and his sons anointed him and said, "_Long_ live the king!" ## Athaliah Murdered 







###### 12 



When Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and praising the king, she went into the house of the LORD to the people. 







###### 13 



She looked, and behold, the king was standing by his pillar at the entrance, and the captains and the [^d]trumpeters _were_ beside the king. And all the people of the land rejoiced and blew trumpets, the singers with _their_ musical instruments [^e]leading the praise. Then Athaliah tore her clothes and said, "Conspiracy! Conspiracy!" 







###### 14 



And Jehoiada the priest brought out the captains of hundreds who were appointed over the army, and said to them, "Bring her out [^f]between the ranks, and whoever follows her is to be put to death with the sword." For the priest said, "You shall not put her to death in the house of the LORD." 







###### 15 



So they [^g]seized her, and when she arrived at the entrance of the Horse Gate of the king's house, they put her to death there. ## Reforms Carried Out 







###### 16 



Then Jehoiada made a covenant between himself and all the people and the king, that they would be the LORD's people. 







###### 17 



And all the people went to the house of Baal and tore it down, and they broke in pieces his altars and his images, and killed Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars. 







###### 18 



Moreover, Jehoiada placed the offices of the house of the LORD under the [^h]authority of the Levitical priests, whom David had assigned over the house of the LORD, to offer the burnt offerings of the LORD, as it is written in the Law of Moses--with rejoicing and singing according to the [^i]order of David. 







###### 19 



He stationed the gatekeepers of the house of the LORD, so that no one would enter _who was_ in any way unclean. 







###### 20 



He took the captains of hundreds, the nobles, the rulers of the people, and all the people of the land, and brought the king down from the house of the LORD, and went through the upper gate to the king's house. And they seated the king upon the royal throne. 







###### 21 



So all of the people of the land rejoiced and the city was at rest. For they had put Athaliah to death with the sword. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 23:3 Lit _he_ [^b]: 2 Chronicles 23:10 Lit _shoulder_ [^c]: 2 Chronicles 23:10 Lit _shoulder_ [^d]: 2 Chronicles 23:13 Lit _trumpets_ [^e]: 2 Chronicles 23:13 Lit _and leading for praising_ [^f]: 2 Chronicles 23:14 Lit _from within_ [^g]: 2 Chronicles 23:15 Lit _put hands to her_ [^h]: 2 Chronicles 23:18 Lit _hand_ [^i]: 2 Chronicles 23:18 Lit _hands of_
