---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 29]
previous: ['2 Chr 28']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 30']
---
# 2 Chronicles 29

***








###### 1 



Hezekiah became king _when he was_ twenty-five years old; and he reigned for twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name _was_ Abijah, the daughter of Zechariah. 







###### 2 



He did what was right in the sight of the LORD, in accordance with everything that his father David had done. 







###### 3 



In the first year of his reign, in the first month, he opened the doors of the house of the LORD and repaired them. 







###### 4 



He brought in the priests and the Levites and gathered them into the public square on the east. ## Reforms Begun 







###### 5 



Then he said to them, "Listen to me, you Levites. Consecrate yourselves now, and consecrate the house of the LORD, the God of your fathers, and carry the uncleanness out of the holy place. 







###### 6 



For our fathers have been unfaithful and have done evil in the sight of the LORD our God, and they have abandoned Him and turned their faces away from the dwelling place of the LORD, and have [^a]turned _their_ backs. 







###### 7 



They have also shut the doors of the porch and extinguished the lamps, and have not burned incense nor offered burnt offerings in the holy place to the God of Israel. 







###### 8 



Therefore the wrath of the LORD was against Judah and Jerusalem, and He has made them an object of terror, of horror, and of hissing, as you see with your own eyes. 







###### 9 



For behold, our fathers have fallen by the sword, and our sons, our daughters, and our wives are in captivity because of this. 







###### 10 



Now it is in my heart to make a covenant with the LORD God of Israel, so that His burning anger may turn away from us. 







###### 11 



My sons, do not be negligent now, for the LORD has chosen you to stand before Him, to serve Him, and to be His ministers and burn incense." 







###### 12 



Then the Levites arose: Mahath the son of Amasai and Joel the son of Azariah, from the sons of the Kohathites; and from the sons of Merari, Kish the son of Abdi and Azariah the son of Jehallelel; and from the Gershonites, Joah the son of Zimmah and Eden the son of Joah; 







###### 13 



and from the sons of Elizaphan, Shimri and [^b]Jeiel; and from the sons of Asaph, Zechariah and Mattaniah; 







###### 14 



and from the sons of Heman, [^c]Jehiel and Shimei; and from the sons of Jeduthun, Shemaiah and Uzziel. 







###### 15 



They assembled their brothers, consecrated themselves, and went in to cleanse the house of the LORD, according to the commandment of the king by the words of the LORD. 







###### 16 



So the priests went into the inner part of the house of the LORD to cleanse _it_, and they brought every unclean thing which they found in the temple of the LORD out to the courtyard of the house of the LORD. Then the Levites received _it_ to carry out to the Kidron [^d]Valley. 







###### 17 



Now they began [^e]the consecration on the first _day_ of the first month, and on the eighth day of the month they entered the porch of the LORD. Then they consecrated the house of the LORD in eight days, and finished on the sixteenth day of the first month. 







###### 18 



Then they went in to King Hezekiah and said, "We have cleansed the whole house of the LORD, the altar of burnt offering with all its utensils, and the table of the showbread with all of its utensils. 







###### 19 



Moreover, all the utensils which King Ahaz had discarded during his reign in his unfaithfulness, we have prepared and consecrated; and behold, they are before the altar of the LORD." ## Hezekiah Restores Temple Worship 







###### 20 



Then King Hezekiah got up early and assembled the princes of the city, and went up to the house of the LORD. 







###### 21 



They brought seven bulls, seven rams, seven lambs, and seven male goats as a sin offering for the kingdom, the sanctuary, and Judah. And he ordered the priests, the sons of Aaron, to offer _them_ on the altar of the LORD. 







###### 22 



So they slaughtered the bulls, and the priests took the blood and sprinkled it on the altar. They also slaughtered the rams and sprinkled the blood on the altar; they slaughtered the lambs as well, and sprinkled the blood on the altar. 







###### 23 



Then they brought the male goats of the sin offering before the king and the assembly, and they laid their hands on them. 







###### 24 



The priests slaughtered them and purified the altar with their blood to atone for all Israel, because the king ordered the burnt offering and the sin offering for all Israel. 







###### 25 



He then stationed the Levites in the house of the LORD with cymbals, harps, and lyres, according to the command of David and of Gad, the king's seer, and of Nathan the prophet; for the command was from the LORD through His prophets. 







###### 26 



The Levites stood with the _musical_ instruments of David, and the priests with the trumpets. 







###### 27 



Then Hezekiah gave the order to offer the burnt offering on the altar. When the burnt offering began, the song to the LORD _also_ began with the trumpets, [^f]_accompanied_ by the instruments of David, king of Israel. 







###### 28 



While the whole assembly worshiped, the singers also sang and the trumpets sounded; all this _continued_ until the burnt offering was finished. 







###### 29 



Now at the completion of the burnt offerings, the king and all who were present with him bowed down and worshiped. 







###### 30 



Moreover, King Hezekiah and the officials ordered the Levites to sing praises to the LORD with the words of David and Asaph the seer. So they sang praises with joy, and bowed down and worshiped. 







###### 31 



Then Hezekiah said, "Now _that_ you have [^g]consecrated yourselves to the LORD, come forward and bring sacrifices and thanksgiving offerings to the house of the LORD." So the assembly brought sacrifices and thanksgiving offerings, and everyone who was [^h]willing _brought_ burnt offerings. 







###### 32 



The number of the burnt offerings which the assembly brought was seventy bulls, a hundred rams, and two hundred lambs; all of these were for a burnt offering to the LORD. 







###### 33 



The consecrated _offerings_ were six hundred bulls and three thousand sheep. 







###### 34 



But the priests were too few, so that they were unable to skin all the burnt offerings; therefore their brothers the Levites helped them until the work was finished and the _other_ priests had consecrated themselves. For the Levites were more [^i]conscientious to consecrate themselves than the priests. 







###### 35 



There _were_ also [^j]many burnt offerings with the fat of the peace offerings and the drink offerings for the burnt offerings. So the service of the house of the LORD was established _again_. 







###### 36 



Then Hezekiah and all the people rejoiced over what God had prepared for the people, because the thing came about suddenly. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 29:6 Lit _given_ [^b]: 2 Chronicles 29:13 Or _Jeuel_ [^c]: 2 Chronicles 29:14 Another reading is _Jehuel_ [^d]: 2 Chronicles 29:16 Or _wadi_ [^e]: 2 Chronicles 29:17 Lit _to consecrate_ [^f]: 2 Chronicles 29:27 Lit _and on the hands of_ [^g]: 2 Chronicles 29:31 Lit _filled your hands_ [^h]: 2 Chronicles 29:31 Lit _willing of heart_ [^i]: 2 Chronicles 29:34 Lit _upright of heart_ [^j]: 2 Chronicles 29:35 Lit _the burnt offerings to an abundance_
