---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 13]
previous: ['2 Chr 12']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 14']
---
# 2 Chronicles 13

***








###### 1 



In the eighteenth year of King Jeroboam, Abijah became king over Judah. 







###### 2 



He reigned in Jerusalem for three years; and his mother's name was [^a]Micaiah the daughter of Uriel of Gibeah. Now there was war between Abijah and Jeroboam. 







###### 3 



Abijah began the battle with an army of warriors, four hundred thousand chosen men, while Jeroboam drew up in battle formation against him with eight hundred thousand chosen men _who were_ valiant warriors. ## Civil War 







###### 4 



Then Abijah stood on Mount Zemaraim, which is in the hill country of Ephraim, and said, "Listen to me, Jeroboam and all Israel: 







###### 5 



Do you not know that the LORD God of Israel gave the rule over Israel forever to David [^b]and his sons by a covenant of salt? 







###### 6 



Yet Jeroboam the son of Nebat, the servant of Solomon the son of David, rose up and rebelled against his [^c]master, 







###### 7 



and worthless men gathered to him, wicked men, who proved too strong for Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, when [^d]he was young and timid and could not hold his own against them. 







###### 8 



"So now you intend to assert yourselves against the kingdom of the LORD [^e]through the sons of David, [^f]being a great multitude and _having_ with you the golden calves which Jeroboam made for you as gods. 







###### 9 



Have you not driven out the priests of the LORD, the sons of Aaron and the Levites, and made for yourselves priests like the peoples of _other_ lands? Whoever comes to consecrate himself with a bull and seven rams, even he may become a priest of _things that are_ not gods. 







###### 10 



But as for us, the LORD is our God, and we have not abandoned Him; and the sons of Aaron are ministering to the LORD as priests, and the Levites [^g]attend to their work. 







###### 11 



Every morning and evening they [^h]burn to the LORD burnt offerings and fragrant incense, and the showbread is _set_ on the clean table, and the golden lampstand with its lamps is _ready_ to light every evening; for we perform _our_ duty to the LORD our God, but you have abandoned Him. 







###### 12 



Now behold, God is with us at _our_ head, and His priests with the signal trumpets to sound the war cry against you. Sons of Israel, do not fight against the LORD God of your fathers, for you will not succeed." 







###### 13 



But Jeroboam had set an ambush to come from behind, so that _Israel_ was in front of Judah and the ambush was behind them. 







###### 14 



When Judah turned around, behold, [^i]they were attacked both from front and rear; so they cried out to the LORD, and the priests blew the trumpets. 







###### 15 



Then the men of Judah raised a war cry, and when the men of Judah raised the war cry, God [^j]defeated Jeroboam and all Israel before Abijah and Judah. 







###### 16 



When the sons of Israel fled from Judah, God handed them over to them. 







###### 17 



Abijah and his people defeated them with a great slaughter, so that five hundred thousand chosen men of Israel fell slain. 







###### 18 



The sons of Israel were subdued at that time, and the sons of Judah [^k]conquered because they trusted in the LORD, the God of their fathers. 







###### 19 



Abijah pursued Jeroboam and captured from him _several_ cities, Bethel with its villages, Jeshanah with its villages, and [^l]Ephron with its villages. ## Death of Jeroboam 







###### 20 



Jeroboam did not again recover strength in the days of Abijah; and the LORD struck him and he died. 







###### 21 



But Abijah became powerful, and he took fourteen wives for himself, and fathered twenty-two sons and sixteen daughters. 







###### 22 



Now the rest of the acts of Abijah, and his ways and his words are written in the [^m]treatise of Iddo the prophet. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 13:2 In 1 Kin 15:2, _Maacah the daughter of Abishalom_ [^b]: 2 Chronicles 13:5 Lit _to him and to his sons_ [^c]: 2 Chronicles 13:6 Or _lord_ [^d]: 2 Chronicles 13:7 Lit _Rehoboam_ [^e]: 2 Chronicles 13:8 Lit _by the hand of_ [^f]: 2 Chronicles 13:8 Lit _and you are a_ [^g]: 2 Chronicles 13:10 Lit _in the work_ [^h]: 2 Chronicles 13:11 Lit _offer up in smoke_ [^i]: 2 Chronicles 13:14 Lit _the battle was in front and behind them_ [^j]: 2 Chronicles 13:15 Lit _struck_ [^k]: 2 Chronicles 13:18 Lit _were strong_ [^l]: 2 Chronicles 13:19 Another reading is _Ephrain_ [^m]: 2 Chronicles 13:22 Heb _midrash_
