---
Aliases: [2 Corinthians 10]
previous: ['2 Cor 9']
up: ['2 Corinthians']
next: ['2 Cor 11']
---
# 2 Corinthians 10

***


###### 1 
Now I, Paul, myself am pleading with you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ--who in presence _am_ lowly among you, but being absent am bold toward you. 

###### 2 
But I beg _you_ that when I am present I may not be bold with that confidence by which I intend to be bold against some, who think of us as if we walked according to the flesh. 

###### 3 
For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh. 

###### 4 
For the weapons of our warfare _are_ not [^a]carnal but mighty in God for pulling down strongholds, 

###### 5 
casting down arguments and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ, 

###### 6 
and being ready to punish all disobedience when your obedience is fulfilled. ## Reality of Paul's Authority 

###### 7 
Do you look at things according to the outward appearance? If anyone is convinced in himself that he is Christ's, let him again consider this in himself, that just as he _is_ Christ's, even [^b]so we _are_ Christ's. 

###### 8 
For even if I should boast somewhat more about our authority, which the Lord gave [^c]us for [^d]edification and not for your destruction, I shall not be ashamed-- 

###### 9 
lest I seem to terrify you by letters. 

###### 10 
"For _his_ letters," they say, "_are_ weighty and powerful, but _his_ bodily presence _is_ weak, and _his_ speech contemptible." 

###### 11 
Let such a person consider this, that what we are in word by letters when we are absent, such _we will_ also _be_ in deed when we are present. ## Limits of Paul's Authority 

###### 12 
For we dare not class ourselves or compare ourselves with those who commend themselves. But they, measuring themselves by themselves, and comparing themselves among themselves, are not wise. 

###### 13 
We, however, will not boast beyond measure, but within the limits of the sphere which God appointed us--a sphere which especially includes you. 

###### 14 
For we are not overextending ourselves (as though _our authority_ did not extend to you), for it was to you that we came with the gospel of Christ; 

###### 15 
not boasting of things beyond measure, _that is,_ in other men's labors, but having hope, _that_ as your faith is increased, we shall be greatly enlarged by you in our sphere, 

###### 16 
to preach the gospel in the _regions_ beyond you, _and_ not to boast in another man's sphere of accomplishment. 

###### 17 
But "he who glories, let him glory in the Lord." 

###### 18 
For not he who commends himself is approved, but whom the Lord commends. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Corinthians 10:4 _of the flesh_ [^b]: 2 Corinthians 10:7 NU _as we are._ [^c]: 2 Corinthians 10:8 NU omits _us_ [^d]: 2 Corinthians 10:8 _building up_
