---
Aliases: [2 Corinthians 12]
previous: ['2 Cor 11']
up: ['2 Corinthians']
next: ['2 Cor 13']
---
# 2 Corinthians 12

***


###### 1 
It is [^a]doubtless not profitable for me to boast. I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord: 

###### 2 
I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago--whether in the body I do not know, or whether out of the body I do not know, God knows--such a one was caught up to the third heaven. 

###### 3 
And I know such a man--whether in the body or out of the body I do not know, God knows-- 

###### 4 
how he was caught up into Paradise and heard inexpressible words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter. 

###### 5 
Of such a one I will boast; yet of myself I will not boast, except in my infirmities. 

###### 6 
For though I might desire to boast, I will not be a fool; for I will speak the truth. But I refrain, lest anyone should think of me above what he sees me _to be_ or hears from me. ## The Thorn in the Flesh 

###### 7 
And lest I should be exalted above measure by the abundance of the revelations, a thorn in the flesh was given to me, a messenger of Satan to [^b]buffet me, lest I be exalted above measure. 

###### 8 
Concerning this thing I pleaded with the Lord three times that it might depart from me. 

###### 9 
And He said to me, "My grace is sufficient for you, for My strength is made perfect in weakness." Therefore most gladly I will rather boast in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. 

###### 10 
Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in needs, in persecutions, in distresses, for Christ's sake. For when I am weak, then I am strong. ## Signs of an Apostle 

###### 11 
I have become a fool [^c]in boasting; you have compelled me. For I ought to have been commended by you; for in nothing was I behind the most eminent apostles, though I am nothing. 

###### 12 
Truly the signs of an apostle were accomplished among you with all perseverance, in signs and wonders and mighty deeds. 

###### 13 
For what is it in which you were inferior to other churches, except that I myself was not burdensome to you? Forgive me this wrong! ## Love for the Church 

###### 14 
Now _for_ the third time I am ready to come to you. And I will not be burdensome to you; for I do not seek yours, but you. For the children ought not to lay up for the parents, but the parents for the children. 

###### 15 
And I will very gladly spend and be spent for your souls; though the more abundantly I love you, the less I am loved. 

###### 16 
But be that _as it may,_ I did not burden you. Nevertheless, being crafty, I caught you by cunning! 

###### 17 
Did I take advantage of you by any of those whom I sent to you? 

###### 18 
I urged Titus, and sent our brother with _him._ Did Titus take advantage of you? Did we not walk in the same spirit? Did _we_ not _walk_ in the same steps? 

###### 19 
Again, [^d]do you think that we excuse ourselves to you? We speak before God in Christ. But _we do_ all things, beloved, for your edification. 

###### 20 
For I fear lest, when I come, I shall not find you such as I wish, and _that_ I shall be found by you such as you do not wish; lest _there be_ contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, backbitings, whisperings, conceits, tumults; 

###### 21 
lest, when I come again, my God will humble me among you, and I shall mourn for many who have sinned before and have not repented of the uncleanness, fornication, and lewdness which they have practiced. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Corinthians 12:1 NU _necessary, though not profitable, to boast_ [^b]: 2 Corinthians 12:7 _beat_ [^c]: 2 Corinthians 12:11 NU omits _in boasting_ [^d]: 2 Corinthians 12:19 NU _You have been thinking for a long time that we_
