---
Aliases: [2 Corinthians 10]
previous: ['2 Cor 9']
up: ['2 Corinthians']
next: ['2 Cor 11']
---
# 2 Corinthians 10

***










###### 1 




Now I, Paul, myself, appeal to you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ--I who am humble among you in person but bold toward you when absent. 









###### 2 




I beg you that when I am present I will not need to be bold with the confidence by which I plan to challenge certain people who think we are living according to the flesh. 









###### 3 




For although we live in the flesh, we do not wage war according to the flesh, 









###### 4 




since the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but are powerful through God for the demolition of strongholds. We demolish arguments 









###### 5 




and every proud thing that is raised up against the knowledge of God, and we take every thought captive to obey Christ. 









###### 6 




And we are ready to punish any disobedience, once your obedience is complete. 









###### 7 




Look at what is obvious.[^a] If anyone is confident that he belongs to Christ, let him remind himself of this: Just as he belongs to Christ, so do we. 









###### 8 




For if I boast a little too much about our authority, which the Lord gave for building you up and not for tearing you down, I will not be put to shame. 









###### 9 




I don't want to seem as though I am trying to terrify you with my letters. 









###### 10 




For it is said, "His letters are weighty and powerful, but his physical presence is weak and his public speaking amounts to nothing." 









###### 11 




Let such a person consider this: What we are in our letters, when we are absent, we will also be in our actions when we are present. 









###### 12 




For we don't dare classify or compare ourselves with some who commend themselves. But in measuring themselves by themselves and comparing themselves to themselves, they lack understanding. 









###### 13 




We, however, will not boast beyond measure but according to the measure of the area of ministry that God has assigned to us, which reaches even to you. 









###### 14 




For we are not overextending ourselves, as if we had not reached you, since we have come to you with the gospel of Christ. 









###### 15 




We are not boasting beyond measure about other people's labors. On the contrary, we have the hope that as your faith increases, our area of ministry will be greatly enlarged, 









###### 16 




so that we may preach the gospel to the regions beyond you without boasting about what has already been done in someone else's area of ministry. 









###### 17 




So <b class="quote">let the one who boasts, boast in the Lord.**[^b] 









###### 18 




For it is not the one commending himself who is approved, but the one the Lord commends. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 10:7 Or <em>You are looking at things outwardly</em> [^b]: 10:17 Jr 9:24
