---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 25]
previous: ['1 Chr 24']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 26']
---
# 1 Chronicles 25

***










###### 1 




David and the officers of the army also set apart some of the sons of Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun, who were to prophesy accompanied by lyres, harps, and cymbals. This is the list of the men who performed their service: 









###### 2 




From Asaph's sons: Zaccur, Joseph, Nethaniah, and Asarelah, sons of Asaph, under Asaph's authority, who prophesied under the authority of the king. 









###### 3 




From Jeduthun: Jeduthun's sons: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Shimei,[^a] Hashabiah, and Mattithiah--six--under the authority of their father Jeduthun, prophesying to the accompaniment of lyres, giving thanks and praise to the Lord. 









###### 4 




From Heman: Heman's sons: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, Romamti-ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, and Mahazioth. 









###### 5 




All these sons of Heman, the king's seer, were given by the promises of God to exalt him,[^b] for God had given Heman fourteen sons and three daughters. 









###### 6 




All these men were under their own fathers' authority for the music in the Lord's temple, with cymbals, harps, and lyres for the service of God's temple. Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman were under the king's authority. 









###### 7 




They numbered 288 together with their relatives who were all trained and skillful in music for the Lord. 









###### 8 




They cast lots for their duties, young and old alike, teacher as well as pupil. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 25:3 One Hb ms, LXX; other Hb mss omit <em>Shimei</em> [^b]: 25:5 Lit <em>by the words of God to lift a horn</em> [^c]: 25:9 LXX; MT lacks <em>his sons, and his relatives—12</em> [^d]: 25:11 Variant of Zeri [^e]: 25:18 Variant of Uzziel
