---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 24]
previous: ['1 Chr 23']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 25']
---
# 1 Chronicles 24

***










###### 1 




The divisions of the descendants of Aaron were as follows: Aaron's sons were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 









###### 2 




But Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and they had no sons, so Eleazar and Ithamar served as priests. 









###### 3 




Together with Zadok from the descendants of Eleazar and Ahimelech from the descendants of Ithamar, David divided them according to the assigned duties of their service. 









###### 4 




Since more leaders were found among Eleazar's descendants than Ithamar's, they were divided accordingly: sixteen heads of ancestral families[^a] were from Eleazar's descendants, and eight heads of ancestral families were from Ithamar's. 









###### 5 




They were assigned by lot, for there were officers of the sanctuary and officers of God among both Eleazar's and Ithamar's descendants. 









###### 6 




The secretary, Shemaiah son of Nethanel, a Levite, recorded them in the presence of the king and the officers, the priest Zadok, Ahimelech son of Abiathar, and the heads of families of the priests and the Levites. One ancestral family[^b] was taken for Eleazar, and then one for Ithamar. 









###### 7 




The first lot fell to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah, 









###### 8 




the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim, 









###### 9 




the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin, 









###### 10 




the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah, 









###### 11 




the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah, 









###### 12 




the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim, 









###### 13 




the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab, 









###### 14 




the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer, 









###### 15 




the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Happizzez, 









###### 16 




the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezkel, 









###### 17 




the twenty-first to Jachin, the twenty-second to Gamul, 









###### 18 




the twenty-third to Delaiah, and the twenty-fourth to Maaziah. 









###### 19 




These had their assigned duties for service when they entered the Lord's temple, according to their regulations, which they received from their ancestor Aaron, as the Lord God of Israel had commanded him. ## The Rest of the Levites 









###### 20 




As for the rest of Levi's sons: from Amram's sons: Shubael; from Shubael's sons: Jehdeiah. 









###### 21 




From Rehabiah: from Rehabiah's sons: Isshiah was the first. 









###### 22 




From the Izharites: Shelomoth; from Shelomoth's sons: Jahath. 









###### 23 




Hebron's[^c] sons: Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth. 









###### 24 




From Uzziel's sons: Micah; from Micah's sons: Shamir. 









###### 25 




Micah's brother: Isshiah; from Isshiah's sons: Zechariah. 









###### 26 




Merari's sons: Mahli and Mushi, and from his sons, Jaaziah his son.[^d] 









###### 27 




Merari's sons, by his son Jaaziah:[^e] Shoham, Zaccur, and Ibri. 









###### 28 




From Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons. 









###### 29 




From Kish, from Kish's sons: Jerahmeel. 









###### 30 




Mushi's sons: Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. Those were the descendants of the Levites according to their ancestral families.[^f] 









###### 31 




They also cast lots the same way as their relatives the descendants of Aaron did in the presence of King David, Zadok, Ahimelech, and the heads of the families of the priests and Levites--the family heads and their younger brothers alike. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 24:4 Lit <em>house of fathers</em> [^b]: 24:6 Lit <em>father’s house</em> [^c]: 24:23 Some Hb mss, some LXX mss; other Hb mss omit <em>Hebron’s</em>; 1Ch 23:19 [^d]: 24:26 Or <em>Mushi; Jaaziah’s sons: Beno.</em> [^e]: 24:27 Or <em>sons, Jaaziah: Beno,</em> [^f]: 24:30 Lit <em>the house of their fathers</em>
