---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 20]
previous: ['1 Chr 19']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 21']
---
# 1 Chronicles 20

***










###### 1 




In the spring[^a] when kings march out to war, Joab led the army and destroyed the Ammonites' land. He came to Rabbah and besieged it, but David remained in Jerusalem. Joab attacked Rabbah and demolished it. 









###### 2 




Then David took the crown from the head of their king,[^b][^c] and it was placed on David's head. He found that the crown weighed seventy-five pounds[^d] of gold, and there was a precious stone in it. In addition, David took away a large quantity of plunder from the city. 









###### 3 




He brought out the people who were in it and put them to work with saws,[^e] iron picks, and axes.[^f] David did the same to all the Ammonite cities. Then he and all his troops returned to Jerusalem. ## The Philistine Giants 









###### 4 




After this, a war broke out with the Philistines at Gezer. At that time Sibbecai the Hushathite killed Sippai, a descendant of the Rephaim,[^g] and the Philistines were subdued. 









###### 5 




Once again there was a battle with the Philistines, and Elhanan son of Jair killed Lahmi the brother of Goliath of Gath. The shaft of his spear was like a weaver's beam. 









###### 6 




There was still another battle at Gath where there was a man of extraordinary stature with six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot--twenty-four in all. He, too, was descended from the giant.[^h] 









###### 7 




When he taunted Israel, Jonathan son of David's brother Shimei killed him. 









###### 8 




These were the descendants of the giant in Gath killed by David and his soldiers. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 20:1 Lit <em>At the time of the return of the year</em> [^b]: 20:2 LXX, Vg read <em>of Milcom</em> [^c]: 20:2 = Molech; 1Kg 11:5,7 [^d]: 20:2 Lit <em>a talent</em> [^e]: 20:3 Text emended; MT reads <em>and sawed them with the saw</em>; 2Sm 12:31 [^f]: 20:3 Text emended; MT reads <em>saws</em>; 2Sm 12:31 [^g]: 20:4 Or <em>the Rephaites</em> [^h]: 20:6 Or <em>Raphah</em>, also in v. 8
