---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 11]
previous: ['1 Chr 10']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 12']
---
# 1 Chronicles 11

***










###### 1 




All Israel came together to David at Hebron and said, "Here we are, your own flesh and blood.[^a] 









###### 2 




Even previously when Saul was king, you were leading Israel out to battle and bringing us back. The Lord your God also said to you, 'You will shepherd my people Israel, and you will be ruler over my people Israel.'" 









###### 3 




So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron. David made a covenant with them at Hebron in the Lord's presence, and they anointed David king over Israel, in keeping with the Lord's word through Samuel. ## David's Capture of Jerusalem 









###### 4 




David and all Israel marched to Jerusalem (that is, Jebus); the Jebusites who inhabited the land were there. 









###### 5 




The inhabitants of Jebus said to David, "You will never get in here." Yet David did capture the stronghold of Zion, that is, the city of David. 









###### 6 




David said, "Whoever is the first to kill a Jebusite will become chief commander." Joab son of Zeruiah went up first, so he became the chief. 









###### 7 




Then David took up residence in the stronghold; therefore, it was called the city of David. 









###### 8 




He built up the city all the way around, from the supporting terraces to the surrounding parts, and Joab restored the rest of the city. 









###### 9 




David steadily grew more powerful, and the Lord of Armies was with him. ## Exploits of David's Warriors 









###### 10 




The following were the chiefs of David's warriors who, together with all Israel, strongly supported him in his reign to make him king according to the Lord's word about Israel. 









###### 11 




This is the list of David's warriors: Jashobeam son of Hachmoni was chief of the Thirty;[^b] he wielded his spear against three hundred and killed them at one time. 









###### 12 




After him, Eleazar son of Dodo the Ahohite was one of the three warriors. 









###### 13 




He was with David at Pas-dammim when the Philistines had gathered there for battle. There was a portion of a field full of barley, where the troops had fled from the Philistines. 









###### 14 




But Eleazar and David[^c] took their stand in the middle of the field and defended it. They killed the Philistines, and the Lord gave them a great victory. 









###### 15 




Three of the thirty chief men went down to David, to the rock at the cave of Adullam, while the Philistine army was encamped in Rephaim Valley. 









###### 16 




At that time David was in the stronghold, and a Philistine garrison was at Bethlehem. 









###### 17 




David was extremely thirsty[^d] and said, "If only someone would bring me water to drink from the well at the city gate of Bethlehem!" 









###### 18 




So the Three broke through the Philistine camp and drew water from the well at the gate of Bethlehem. They brought it back to David, but he refused to drink it. Instead, he poured it out to the Lord. 









###### 19 




David said, "I would never do such a thing in the presence of my God! How can I drink the blood of these men who risked their lives?" For they brought it at the risk of their lives. So he would not drink it. Such were the exploits of the three warriors. 









###### 20 




Abishai, Joab's brother, was the leader of the Three.[^e] He raised his spear against three hundred men and killed them, gaining a reputation among the Three. 









###### 21 




He was more honored than the Three and became their commander even though he did not become one of the Three. 









###### 22 




Benaiah son of Jehoiada was the son of a brave man[^f] from Kabzeel, a man of many exploits. Benaiah killed two sons of Ariel of Moab,[^g] and he went down into a pit on a snowy day and killed a lion. 









###### 23 




He also killed an Egyptian who was seven and a half feet tall.[^h] Even though the Egyptian had a spear in his hand like a weaver's beam, Benaiah went down to him with a staff, snatched the spear out of the Egyptian's hand, and then killed him with his own spear. 









###### 24 




These were the exploits of Benaiah son of Jehoiada, who had a reputation among the three warriors. 









###### 25 




He was the most honored of the Thirty, but he did not become one of the Three. David put him in charge of his bodyguard. 









###### 26 




The best soldiers were Joab's brother Asahel, Elhanan son of Dodo of Bethlehem, 









###### 27 




Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite, 









###### 28 




Ira son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Abiezer the Anathothite, 









###### 29 




Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite, 









###### 30 




Maharai the Netophathite, Heled son of Baanah the Netophathite, 









###### 31 




Ithai son of Ribai from Gibeah of the Benjaminites, Benaiah the Pirathonite, 









###### 32 




Hurai from the wadis of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite, 









###### 33 




Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite, 









###### 34 




the sons of[^i] Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan son of Shagee the Hararite, 









###### 35 




Ahiam son of Sachar the Hararite, Eliphal son of Ur, 









###### 36 




Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite, 









###### 37 




Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai son of Ezbai, 









###### 38 




Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar son of Hagri, 









###### 39 




Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Beerothite, the armor-bearer for Joab son of Zeruiah, 









###### 40 




Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite, 









###### 41 




Uriah the Hethite, Zabad son of Ahlai, 









###### 42 




Adina son of Shiza the Reubenite, chief of the Reubenites, and thirty with him, 









###### 43 




Hanan son of Maacah, Joshaphat the Mithnite, 









###### 44 




Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jeiel the sons of Hotham the Aroerite, 









###### 45 




Jediael son of Shimri and his brother Joha the Tizite, 









###### 46 




Eliel the Mahavite, Jeribai and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, Ithmah the Moabite, 









###### 47 




Eliel, Obed, and Jaasiel the Mezobaite. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 11:1 Lit <em>your bone and your flesh</em> [^b]: 11:11 Alt Hb tradition reads <em>Three</em> [^c]: 11:14 Lit <em>But they</em> [^d]: 11:17 Lit <em>And David craved</em> [^e]: 11:20 Syr reads <em>Thirty</em> [^f]: 11:22 Or <em>was a valiant man</em> [^g]: 11:22 Or <em>He killed two Moabite warriors</em> [^h]: 11:23 Lit <em>who measured five cubits</em> [^i]: 11:34 LXX omits <em>the sons of</em>; 2Sm 23:32
