---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 18]
previous: ['1 Chr 17']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 19']
---
# 1 Chronicles 18

***










###### 1 




After this, David defeated the Philistines, subdued them, and took Gath and its surrounding villages from Philistine control. 









###### 2 




He also defeated the Moabites, and they became David's subjects and brought tribute. 









###### 3 




David also defeated King Hadadezer of Zobah at Hamath when he went to establish his control at the Euphrates River. 









###### 4 




David captured one thousand chariots, seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand foot soldiers from him, hamstrung all the horses, and kept a hundred chariots.[^a] 









###### 5 




When the Arameans of Damascus came to assist King Hadadezer of Zobah, David struck down twenty-two thousand Aramean men. 









###### 6 




Then he placed garrisons[^b] in Aram of Damascus, and the Arameans became David's subjects and brought tribute. The Lord made David victorious wherever he went. 









###### 7 




David took the gold shields carried by Hadadezer's officers and brought them to Jerusalem. 









###### 8 




From Tibhath and Cun, Hadadezer's cities, David also took huge quantities of bronze, from which Solomon made the bronze basin,[^c] the pillars, and the bronze articles. 









###### 9 




When King Tou of Hamath heard that David had defeated the entire army of King Hadadezer of Zobah, 









###### 10 




he sent his son Hadoram to King David to greet him and to congratulate him because David had fought against Hadadezer and defeated him, for Tou and Hadadezer had fought many wars. Hadoram brought all kinds of gold, silver, and bronze items. 









###### 11 




King David also dedicated these to the Lord, along with the silver and gold he had carried off from all the nations--from Edom, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines, and the Amalekites. 









###### 12 




Abishai son of Zeruiah struck down eighteen thousand Edomites in the Salt Valley. 









###### 13 




He put garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites were subject to David. The Lord made David victorious wherever he went. 









###### 14 




So David reigned over all Israel, administering justice and righteousness for all his people. 









###### 15 




Joab son of Zeruiah was over the army; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was court historian; 









###### 16 




Zadok son of Ahitub and Ahimelech[^d] son of Abiathar were priests; Shavsha was court secretary; 









###### 17 




Benaiah son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David's sons were the chief officials at the king's side. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 18:4 Or <em>chariot horses</em> [^b]: 18:6 Some Hb mss, LXX, Vg; other Hb mss omit <em>garrisons</em>; 2Sm 8:6 [^c]: 18:8 Lit <em>sea</em> [^d]: 18:16 Some Hb mss, LXX, Syr, Vg; other Hb mss read <em>Abimelech</em>; 2Sm 8:17
