---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 17]
previous: ['1 Chr 16']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 18']
---
# 1 Chronicles 17

***










###### 1 




When David had settled into his palace, he said to the prophet Nathan, "Look! I am living in a cedar house while the ark of the Lord's covenant is under tent curtains." 









###### 2 




So Nathan told David, "Do all that is on your mind, for God is with you." 









###### 3 




But that night the word of God came to Nathan: 









###### 4 




"Go to David my servant and say, 'This is what the Lord says: You are not the one to build me a house to dwell in. 









###### 5 




From the time I brought Israel out of Egypt until today I have not dwelt in a house; instead, I have moved from one tent site to another, and from one tabernacle location to another.[^a] 









###### 6 




In all my journeys throughout Israel, have I ever spoken a word to even one of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to shepherd my people, asking: Why haven't you built me a house of cedar?' 









###### 7 




"So now this is what you are to say to my servant David: 'This is what the Lord of Armies says: I took you from the pasture, from tending the flock, to be ruler over my people Israel. 









###### 8 




I have been with you wherever you have gone, and I have destroyed all your enemies before you. I will make a name for you like that of the greatest on the earth. 









###### 9 




I will designate a place for my people Israel and plant them, so that they may live there and not be disturbed again. Evildoers will not continue to oppress them as they have done 









###### 10 




ever since the day I ordered judges to be over my people Israel. I will also subdue all your enemies. "'Furthermore, I declare to you that the Lord himself will build a house for you. 









###### 11 




When your time comes to be with your ancestors, I will raise up after you your descendant, who is one of your own sons, and I will establish his kingdom. 









###### 12 




He is the one who will build a house for me, and I will establish his throne forever. 









###### 13 




I will be his father, and he will be my son. I will not remove my faithful love from him as I removed it from the one who was before you. 









###### 14 




I will appoint him over my house and my kingdom forever, and his throne will be established forever.'" 









###### 15 




Nathan reported all these words and this entire vision to David. ## David's Prayer of Thanksgiving 









###### 16 




Then King David went in, sat in the Lord's presence, and said, Who am I, Lord God, and what is my house that you have brought me this far? 









###### 17 




This was a little thing to you,[^b] God, for you have spoken about your servant's house in the distant future. You regard me as a man of distinction,[^c] Lord God. 









###### 18 




What more can David say to you for honoring your servant? You know your servant. 









###### 19 




Lord, you have done this whole great thing, making known all these great promises for the sake of your servant and according to your will. 









###### 20 




Lord, there is no one like you, and there is no God besides you, as all we have heard confirms. 









###### 21 




And who is like your people Israel? God, you came to one nation on earth to redeem a people for yourself, to make a name for yourself through great and awesome works by driving out nations before your people you redeemed from Egypt. 









###### 22 




You made your people Israel your own people forever, and you, Lord, have become their God. 









###### 23 




Now, Lord, let the word that you have spoken concerning your servant and his house be confirmed forever, and do as you have promised. 









###### 24 




Let your name be confirmed and magnified forever in the saying, "The Lord of Armies, the God of Israel, is God over Israel." May the house of your servant David be established before you. 









###### 25 




Since you, my God, have revealed to[^d] your servant that you will build him a house, your servant has found courage to pray in your presence. 









###### 26 




Lord, you indeed are God, and you have promised this good thing to your servant. 









###### 27 




So now, you have been pleased to bless your servant's house that it may continue before you forever. For you, Lord, have blessed it, and it is blessed forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 17:5 Lit <em>I was from tent to tent and from tabernacle</em> [^b]: 17:17 Lit <em>thing in your eyes</em> [^c]: 17:17 Hb obscure [^d]: 17:25 Lit <em>have uncovered the ear of</em>
