---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 18]
previous: ['1 Chr 17']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 19']
---
# 1 Chronicles 18

***




###### 1 

After this, David defeated and subdued the Philistines by conquering Gath and its surrounding towns. 



###### 2 

David also conquered the land of Moab, and the Moabites who were spared became David's subjects and paid him tribute money. 



###### 3 

David also destroyed the forces of Hadadezer, king of Zobah, as far as Hamath,[^a] when Hadadezer marched out to strengthen his control along the Euphrates River. 



###### 4 

David captured 1,000 chariots, 7,000 charioteers, and 20,000 foot soldiers. He crippled all the chariot horses except enough for 100 chariots. 



###### 5 

When Arameans from Damascus arrived to help King Hadadezer, David killed 22,000 of them. 



###### 6 

Then he placed several army garrisons[^b] in Damascus, the Aramean capital, and the Arameans became David's subjects and paid him tribute money. So the LORD made David victorious wherever he went. 



###### 7 

David brought the gold shields of Hadadezer's officers to Jerusalem, 



###### 8 

along with a large amount of bronze from Hadadezer's towns of Tebah[^c] and Cun. Later Solomon melted the bronze and molded it into the great bronze basin called the Sea, the pillars, and the various bronze articles used at the Temple. 



###### 9 

When King Toi[^d] of Hamath heard that David had destroyed the entire army of King Hadadezer of Zobah, 



###### 10 

he sent his son Joram[^e] to congratulate King David for his successful campaign. Hadadezer and Toi had been enemies and were often at war. Joram presented David with many gifts of gold, silver, and bronze. 



###### 11 

King David dedicated all these gifts to the LORD, along with the silver and gold he had taken from the other nations--from Edom, Moab, Ammon, Philistia, and Amalek. 



###### 12 

Abishai son of Zeruiah destroyed 18,000 Edomites in the Valley of Salt. 



###### 13 

He placed army garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites became David's subjects. In fact, the LORD made David victorious wherever he went. 



###### 14 

So David reigned over all Israel and did what was just and right for all his people. 



###### 15 

Joab son of Zeruiah was commander of the army. Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was the royal historian. 



###### 16 

Zadok son of Ahitub and Ahimelech[^f] son of Abiathar were the priests. Seraiah[^g] was the court secretary. 



###### 17 

Benaiah son of Jehoiada was captain of the king's bodyguard.[^h] And David's sons served as the king's chief assistants. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 18:3 The meaning of the Hebrew is uncertain. [^b]: 18:6 As in Greek version and Latin Vulgate (see also [2 Sam 8:6]); Hebrew lacks _several army garrisons._ [^c]: 18:8 Hebrew reads _Tibhath,_ a variant spelling of Tebah; compare parallel text at [2 Sam 8:8]. [^d]: 18:9 As in parallel text at [2 Sam 8:9]; Hebrew reads _Tou;_ also in [18:10]. [^e]: 18:10 As in parallel text at [2 Sam 8:10]; Hebrew reads _Hadoram,_ a variant spelling of Joram. [^f]: 18:16a As in some Hebrew manuscripts, Syriac version, and Latin Vulgate (see also [2 Sam 8:17]); most Hebrew manuscripts read _Abimelech._ [^g]: 18:16b As in parallel text at [2 Sam 8:17]; Hebrew reads _Shavsha._ [^h]: 18:17 Hebrew _of the Kerethites and Pelethites._
