---
Aliases: [2 Samuel 22]
previous: ['2 Sam 21']
up: ['2 Samuel']
next: ['2 Sam 23']
---
# 2 Samuel 22

***










###### 1 




David spoke the words of this song to the Lord on the day the Lord rescued him from the grasp of all his enemies and from the grasp of Saul. 









###### 2 




He said: The Lord is my rock, my fortress, and my deliverer, 









###### 3 




my God,[^a] my rock where I seek refuge. My shield, the horn of my salvation, my stronghold, my refuge, and my Savior, you save me from violence. 









###### 4 




I called to the Lord, who is worthy of praise, and I was saved from my enemies. 









###### 5 




For the waves of death engulfed me; the torrents of destruction terrified me. 









###### 6 




The ropes of Sheol entangled me; the snares of death confronted me. 









###### 7 




I called to the Lord in my distress; I called to my God. From his temple he heard my voice, and my cry for help reached his ears. 









###### 8 




Then the earth shook and quaked; the foundations of the heavens[^b] trembled; they shook because he burned with anger. 









###### 9 




Smoke rose from his nostrils, and consuming fire came from his mouth; coals were set ablaze by it.[^c] 









###### 10 




He bent the heavens and came down, total darkness beneath his feet. 









###### 11 




He rode on a cherub and flew, soaring[^d] on the wings of the wind. 









###### 12 




He made darkness a canopy around him, a gathering[^e] of water and thick clouds. 









###### 13 




From the radiance of his presence, blazing coals were ignited. 









###### 14 




The Lord thundered from heaven; the Most High made his voice heard. 









###### 15 




He shot arrows and scattered them; he hurled lightning bolts and routed them. 









###### 16 




The depths of the sea became visible, the foundations of the world were exposed at the rebuke of the Lord, at the blast of the breath of his nostrils. 









###### 17 




He reached down from on high and took hold of me; he pulled me out of deep water. 









###### 18 




He rescued me from my powerful enemy and from those who hated me, for they were too strong for me. 









###### 19 




They confronted me in the day of my calamity, but the Lord was my support. 









###### 20 




He brought me out to a spacious place; he rescued me because he delighted in me. 









###### 21 




The Lord rewarded me according to my righteousness; he repaid me according to the cleanness of my hands. 









###### 22 




For I have kept the ways of the Lord and have not turned from my God to wickedness. 









###### 23 




Indeed, I let all his ordinances guide me[^f] and have not disregarded his statutes. 









###### 24 




I was blameless before him and kept myself from my iniquity. 









###### 25 




So the Lord repaid me according to my righteousness, according to my cleanness[^g] in his sight. 









###### 26 




With the faithful you prove yourself faithful, with the blameless you prove yourself blameless, 









###### 27 




with the pure you prove yourself pure, but with the crooked you prove yourself shrewd. 









###### 28 




You rescue an oppressed people, but your eyes are set against the proud-- you humble them. 









###### 29 




Lord, you are my lamp; the Lord illuminates my darkness. 









###### 30 




With you I can attack a barricade,[^h] and with my God I can leap over a wall. 









###### 31 




God--his way is perfect; the word of the Lord is pure. He is a shield to all who take refuge in him. 









###### 32 




For who is God besides the Lord? And who is a rock? Only our God. 









###### 33 




God is my strong refuge;[^i] he makes my way perfect.[^j] 









###### 34 




He makes my feet like the feet of a deer and sets me securely on the[^k] heights.[^l] 









###### 35 




He trains my hands for war; my arms can bend a bow of bronze. 









###### 36 




You have given me the shield of your salvation; your help[^m] exalts me. 









###### 37 




You make a spacious place beneath me for my steps, and my ankles do not give way. 









###### 38 




I pursue my enemies and destroy them; I do not turn back until they are wiped out. 









###### 39 




I wipe them out and crush them, and they do not rise; they fall beneath my feet. 









###### 40 




You have clothed me with strength for battle; you subdue my adversaries beneath me. 









###### 41 




You have made my enemies retreat before me;[^n] I annihilate those who hate me. 









###### 42 




They look, but there is no one to save them-- they look to the Lord, but he does not answer them. 









###### 43 




I pulverize them like dust of the earth; I crush them and trample them like mud in the streets. 









###### 44 




You have freed me from the feuds among my people; you have preserved me as head of nations; a people I had not known serve me. 









###### 45 




Foreigners submit to me cringing; as soon as they hear, they obey me. 









###### 46 




Foreigners lose heart and come trembling from their fortifications. 









###### 47 




The Lord lives--blessed be my rock! God, the rock of my salvation, is exalted. 









###### 48 




God--he grants me vengeance and casts down peoples under me. 









###### 49 




He frees me from my enemies. You exalt me above my adversaries; you rescue me from violent men. 









###### 50 




Therefore I will give thanks to you among the nations, Lord; I will sing praises about your name. 









###### 51 




He is a tower of salvation for[^o] his king; he shows loyalty to his anointed, to David and his descendants forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 22:3 LXX, Ps 18:2 read <em>my God</em>; MT reads <em>God of</em> [^b]: 22:8 Some Hb mss, Syr, Vg read <em>mountains</em>; Ps 18:7 [^c]: 22:9 Or <em>him</em> [^d]: 22:11 Some Hb mss; other Hb mss, Syr, Tg read <em>he was seen</em> [^e]: 22:12 Or <em>sieve</em>, or <em>mass</em>; Hb obscure [^f]: 22:23 Lit <em>Indeed, all his ordinances have been in front of me</em> [^g]: 22:25 LXX, Syr, Vg read <em>to the cleanness of my hands</em>; Ps 18:24 [^h]: 22:30 Or <em>a ridge</em>, or <em>raiders</em> [^i]: 22:33 DSS, some LXX mss, Syr, Vg read <em>God clothes me with strength</em>; Ps 18:32 [^j]: 22:33 Some LXX mss, Syr; MT reads <em>he sets free the blameless his way</em>; Hb obscure [^k]: 22:34 LXX; some Hb mss read <em>my</em>; other Hb mss read <em>his</em> [^l]: 22:34 Or <em>on my high places</em> [^m]: 22:36 LXX reads <em>humility</em>; Ps 18:35 [^n]: 22:41 Lit <em>you gave me the neck of my enemies</em> [^o]: 22:51 DSS read <em>he gives great victory to</em>
