---
Aliases: [Psalms 109]
previous: ['Ps 108']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 110']
---
# Psalms 109

***






###### 1 


Be not silent, O God of my praise! 





###### 2 


For wicked and deceitful mouths are opened against me, speaking against me with lying tongues. 





###### 3 


They encircle me with words of hate, and attack me without cause. 





###### 4 


In return for my love they accuse me, but I give myself to prayer.[^a] 





###### 5 


So they reward me evil for good, and hatred for my love. 





###### 6 


Appoint a wicked man against him; let an accuser stand at his right hand. 





###### 7 


When he is tried, let him come forth guilty; let his prayer be counted as sin! 





###### 8 


May his days be few; may another take his office! 





###### 9 


May his children be fatherless and his wife a widow! 





###### 10 


May his children wander about and beg, seeking food far from the ruins they inhabit! 





###### 11 


May the creditor seize all that he has; may strangers plunder the fruits of his toil! 





###### 12 


Let there be none to extend kindness to him, nor any to pity his fatherless children! 





###### 13 


May his posterity be cut off; may his name be blotted out in the second generation! 





###### 14 


May the iniquity of his fathers be remembered before the LORD, and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out! 





###### 15 


Let them be before the LORD continually, that he may cut off the memory of them from the earth! 





###### 16 


For he did not remember to show kindness, but pursued the poor and needy and the brokenhearted, to put them to death. 





###### 17 


He loved to curse; let curses come[^b] upon him! He did not delight in blessing; may it be far[^c] from him! 





###### 18 


He clothed himself with cursing as his coat; may it soak[^d] into his body like water, like oil into his bones! 





###### 19 


May it be like a garment that he wraps around him, like a belt that he puts on every day! 





###### 20 


May this be the reward of my accusers from the LORD, of those who speak evil against my life! 





###### 21 


But you, O God my Lord, deal on my behalf for your name's sake; because your steadfast love is good, deliver me! 





###### 22 


For I am poor and needy, and my heart is stricken within me. 





###### 23 


I am gone like a shadow at evening; I am shaken off like a locust. 





###### 24 


My knees are weak through fasting; my body has become gaunt, with no fat. 





###### 25 


I am an object of scorn to my accusers; when they see me, they wag their heads. 





###### 26 


Help me, O LORD my God! Save me according to your steadfast love! 





###### 27 


Let them know that this is your hand; you, O LORD, have done it! 





###### 28 


Let them curse, but you will bless! They arise and are put to shame, but your servant will be glad! 





###### 29 


May my accusers be clothed with dishonor; may they be wrapped in their own shame as in a cloak! 





###### 30 


With my mouth I will give great thanks to the LORD; I will praise him in the midst of the throng. 





###### 31 


For he stands at the right hand of the needy one, to save him from those who condemn his soul to death. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 109:4 Hebrew _but I am prayer_ [^b]: Psalm 109:17 Revocalization; Masoretic Text _curses have come_ [^c]: Psalm 109:17 Revocalization; Masoretic Text _it is far_ [^d]: Psalm 109:18 Revocalization; Masoretic Text _it has soaked_
