---
Aliases: [Psalms 144]
previous: ['Ps 143']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 145']
---
# Psalms 144

***






###### 1 


Blessed be the LORD, my rock, who trains my hands for war, and my fingers for battle; 





###### 2 


he is my steadfast love and my fortress, my stronghold and my deliverer, my shield and he in whom I take refuge, who subdues peoples[^a] under me. 





###### 3 


O LORD, what is man that you regard him, or the son of man that you think of him? 





###### 4 


Man is like a breath; his days are like a passing shadow. 





###### 5 


Bow your heavens, O LORD, and come down! Touch the mountains so that they smoke! 





###### 6 


Flash forth the lightning and scatter them; send out your arrows and rout them! 





###### 7 


Stretch out your hand from on high; rescue me and deliver me from the many waters, from the hand of foreigners, 





###### 8 


whose mouths speak lies and whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood. 





###### 9 


I will sing a new song to you, O God; upon a ten-stringed harp I will play to you, 





###### 10 


who gives victory to kings, who rescues David his servant from the cruel sword. 





###### 11 


Rescue me and deliver me from the hand of foreigners, whose mouths speak lies and whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood. 





###### 12 


May our sons in their youth be like plants full grown, our daughters like corner pillars cut for the structure of a palace; 





###### 13 


may our granaries be full, providing all kinds of produce; may our sheep bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our fields; 





###### 14 


may our cattle be heavy with young, suffering no mishap or failure in bearing;[^b] may there be no cry of distress in our streets! 





###### 15 


Blessed are the people to whom such blessings fall! Blessed are the people whose God is the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 144:2 Many Hebrew manuscripts, Dead Sea Scroll, Jerome, Syriac, Aquila; most Hebrew manuscripts _subdues my people_ [^b]: Psalm 144:14 Hebrew _with no breaking in or going out_
