---
Aliases: [Psalms 108]
previous: ['Ps 107']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 109']
---
# Psalms 108

***






###### 1 


My heart is steadfast, O God! I will sing and make melody with all my being![^a] 





###### 2 


Awake, O harp and lyre! I will awake the dawn! 





###### 3 


I will give thanks to you, O LORD, among the peoples; I will sing praises to you among the nations. 





###### 4 


For your steadfast love is great above the heavens; your faithfulness reaches to the clouds. 





###### 5 


Be exalted, O God, above the heavens! Let your glory be over all the earth! 





###### 6 


That your beloved ones may be delivered, give salvation by your right hand and answer me! 





###### 7 


God has promised in his holiness:[^b] "With exultation I will divide up Shechem and portion out the Valley of Succoth. 





###### 8 


Gilead is mine; Manasseh is mine; Ephraim is my helmet, Judah my scepter. 





###### 9 


Moab is my washbasin; upon Edom I cast my shoe; over Philistia I shout in triumph." 





###### 10 


Who will bring me to the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom? 





###### 11 


Have you not rejected us, O God? You do not go out, O God, with our armies. 





###### 12 


Oh grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man! 





###### 13 


With God we shall do valiantly; it is he who will tread down our foes. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 108:1 Hebrew _with my glory_ [^b]: Psalm 108:7 Or _sanctuary_
