---
Aliases: [Psalms 14]
previous: ['Ps 13']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 15']
---
# Psalms 14

***






###### 1 


The fool says in his heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt, they do abominable deeds; there is none who does good. 





###### 2 


The LORD looks down from heaven on the children of man, to see if there are any who understand,[^a] who seek after God. 





###### 3 


They have all turned aside; together they have become corrupt; there is none who does good, not even one. 





###### 4 


Have they no knowledge, all the evildoers who eat up my people as they eat bread and do not call upon the LORD? 





###### 5 


There they are in great terror, for God is with the generation of the righteous. 





###### 6 


You would shame the plans of the poor, but[^b] the LORD is his refuge. 





###### 7 


Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion! When the LORD restores the fortunes of his people, let Jacob rejoice, let Israel be glad. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 14:2 Or _that act wisely_ [^b]: Psalm 14:6 Or _for_
