---
Aliases: [Psalms 19]
previous: ['Ps 18']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 20']
---
# Psalms 19

***






###### 1 


The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above[^a] proclaims his handiwork. 





###### 2 


Day to day pours out speech, and night to night reveals knowledge. 





###### 3 


There is no speech, nor are there words, whose voice is not heard. 





###### 4 


Their voice[^b] goes out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them he has set a tent for the sun, 





###### 5 


which comes out like a bridegroom leaving his chamber, and, like a strong man, runs its course with joy. 





###### 6 


Its rising is from the end of the heavens, and its circuit to the end of them, and there is nothing hidden from its heat. 





###### 7 


The law of the LORD is perfect,[^c] reviving the soul; the testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple; 





###### 8 


the precepts of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart; the commandment of the LORD is pure, enlightening the eyes; 





###### 9 


the fear of the LORD is clean, enduring forever; the rules[^d] of the LORD are true, and righteous altogether. 





###### 10 


More to be desired are they than gold, even much fine gold; sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb. 





###### 11 


Moreover, by them is your servant warned; in keeping them there is great reward. 





###### 12 


Who can discern his errors? Declare me innocent from hidden faults. 





###### 13 


Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not have dominion over me! Then I shall be blameless, and innocent of great transgression. 





###### 14 


Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O LORD, my rock and my redeemer. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 19:1 Hebrew _the expanse_; compare [Genesis 1:6–8] [^b]: Psalm 19:4 Or _Their measuring line_ [^c]: Psalm 19:7 Or _blameless_ [^d]: Psalm 19:9 Or _just decrees_
