---
Aliases: [Psalms 16]
previous: ['Ps 15']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 17']
---
# Psalms 16

***






###### 1 


Preserve me, O God, for in you I take refuge. 





###### 2 


I say to the LORD, "You are my Lord; I have no good apart from you." 





###### 3 


As for the saints in the land, they are the excellent ones, in whom is all my delight.[^b] 





###### 4 


The sorrows of those who run after[^c] another god shall multiply; their drink offerings of blood I will not pour out or take their names on my lips. 





###### 5 


The LORD is my chosen portion and my cup; you hold my lot. 





###### 6 


The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places; indeed, I have a beautiful inheritance. 





###### 7 


I bless the LORD who gives me counsel; in the night also my heart instructs me.[^d] 





###### 8 


I have set the LORD always before me; because he is at my right hand, I shall not be shaken. 





###### 9 


Therefore my heart is glad, and my whole being[^e] rejoices; my flesh also dwells secure. 





###### 10 


For you will not abandon my soul to Sheol, or let your holy one see corruption.[^f] 





###### 11 


You make known to me the path of life; in your presence there is fullness of joy; at your right hand are pleasures forevermore. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 16:1 Probably a musical or liturgical term [^b]: Psalm 16:3 Or _To the saints in the land, the excellent in whom is all my delight, I say:_ [^c]: Psalm 16:4 Or _who acquire_ [^d]: Psalm 16:7 Hebrew _my kidneys instruct me_ [^e]: Psalm 16:9 Hebrew _my glory_ [^f]: Psalm 16:10 Or _see the pit_
