---
Aliases: [Psalms 29]
previous: ['Ps 28']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 30']
---
# Psalms 29

***






###### 1 


Ascribe to the LORD, O heavenly beings,[^a] ascribe to the LORD glory and strength. 





###### 2 


Ascribe to the LORD the glory due his name; worship the LORD in the splendor of holiness.[^b] 





###### 3 


The voice of the LORD is over the waters; the God of glory thunders, the LORD, over many waters. 





###### 4 


The voice of the LORD is powerful; the voice of the LORD is full of majesty. 





###### 5 


The voice of the LORD breaks the cedars; the LORD breaks the cedars of Lebanon. 





###### 6 


He makes Lebanon to skip like a calf, and Sirion like a young wild ox. 





###### 7 


The voice of the LORD flashes forth flames of fire. 





###### 8 


The voice of the LORD shakes the wilderness; the LORD shakes the wilderness of Kadesh. 





###### 9 


The voice of the LORD makes the deer give birth[^c] and strips the forests bare, and in his temple all cry, "Glory!" 





###### 10 


The LORD sits enthroned over the flood; the LORD sits enthroned as king forever. 





###### 11 


May the LORD give strength to his people! May the LORD bless[^d] his people with peace! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 29:1 Hebrew _sons of God_, or _sons of might_ [^b]: Psalm 29:2 Or _in holy attire_ [^c]: Psalm 29:9 Revocalization yields _makes the oaks to shake_ [^d]: Psalm 29:11 Or _The Lord will give… The Lord will bless_
