---
Aliases: [Psalms 23]
previous: ['Ps 22']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 24']
---
# Psalms 23

***






###### 1 


The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want. 





###### 2 


He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters.[^a] 





###### 3 


He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness[^b] for his name's sake. 





###### 4 


Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death,[^c] I will fear no evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me. 





###### 5 


You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies; you anoint my head with oil; my cup overflows. 





###### 6 


Surely[^d] goodness and mercy[^e] shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell[^f] in the house of the LORD forever.[^g] ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 23:2 Hebrew _beside waters of rest_ [^b]: Psalm 23:3 Or _in right paths_ [^c]: Psalm 23:4 Or _the valley of deep darkness_ [^d]: Psalm 23:6 Or _Only_ [^e]: Psalm 23:6 Or _steadfast love_ [^f]: Psalm 23:6 Or _shall return to dwell_ [^g]: Psalm 23:6 Hebrew _for length of days_
