---
Aliases: [Psalms 27]
previous: ['Ps 26']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 28']
---
# Psalms 27

***






###### 1 


The LORD is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? The LORD is the stronghold[^a] of my life; of whom shall I be afraid? 





###### 2 


When evildoers assail me to eat up my flesh, my adversaries and foes, it is they who stumble and fall. 





###### 3 


Though an army encamp against me, my heart shall not fear; though war arise against me, yet[^b] I will be confident. 





###### 4 


One thing have I asked of the LORD, that will I seek after: that I may dwell in the house of the LORD all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the LORD and to inquire[^c] in his temple. 





###### 5 


For he will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble; he will conceal me under the cover of his tent; he will lift me high upon a rock. 





###### 6 


And now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies all around me, and I will offer in his tent sacrifices with shouts of joy; I will sing and make melody to the LORD. 





###### 7 


Hear, O LORD, when I cry aloud; be gracious to me and answer me! 





###### 8 


You have said, "Seek[^d] my face." My heart says to you, "Your face, LORD, do I seek."[^e] 





###### 9 


Hide not your face from me. Turn not your servant away in anger, O you who have been my help. Cast me not off; forsake me not, O God of my salvation! 





###### 10 


For my father and my mother have forsaken me, but the LORD will take me in. 





###### 11 


Teach me your way, O LORD, and lead me on a level path because of my enemies. 





###### 12 


Give me not up to the will of my adversaries; for false witnesses have risen against me, and they breathe out violence. 





###### 13 


I believe that I shall look[^f] upon the goodness of the LORD in the land of the living! 





###### 14 


Wait for the LORD; be strong, and let your heart take courage; wait for the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 27:1 Or _refuge_ [^b]: Psalm 27:3 Or _in this_ [^c]: Psalm 27:4 Or _meditate_ [^d]: Psalm 27:8 The command (_seek_) is addressed to more than one person [^e]: Psalm 27:8 The meaning of the Hebrew verse is uncertain [^f]: Psalm 27:13 Other Hebrew manuscripts _Oh! Had I not believed that I would look_
