---
Aliases: [Psalms 30]
previous: ['Ps 29']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 31']
---
# Psalms 30

***






###### 1 


I will extol you, O LORD, for you have drawn me up and have not let my foes rejoice over me. 





###### 2 


O LORD my God, I cried to you for help, and you have healed me. 





###### 3 


O LORD, you have brought up my soul from Sheol; you restored me to life from among those who go down to the pit.[^a] 





###### 4 


Sing praises to the LORD, O you his saints, and give thanks to his holy name.[^b] 





###### 5 


For his anger is but for a moment, and his favor is for a lifetime.[^c] Weeping may tarry for the night, but joy comes with the morning. 





###### 6 


As for me, I said in my prosperity, "I shall never be moved." 





###### 7 


By your favor, O LORD, you made my mountain stand strong; you hid your face; I was dismayed. 





###### 8 


To you, O LORD, I cry, and to the Lord I plead for mercy: 





###### 9 


"What profit is there in my death,[^d] if I go down to the pit?[^e] Will the dust praise you? Will it tell of your faithfulness? 





###### 10 


Hear, O LORD, and be merciful to me! O LORD, be my helper!" 





###### 11 


You have turned for me my mourning into dancing; you have loosed my sackcloth and clothed me with gladness, 





###### 12 


that my glory may sing your praise and not be silent. O LORD my God, I will give thanks to you forever! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 30:3 Or _to life, that I should not go down to the pit_ [^b]: Psalm 30:4 Hebrew _to the memorial of his holiness_ (see [Exodus 3:15]) [^c]: Psalm 30:5 Or _and in his favor is life_ [^d]: Psalm 30:9 Hebrew _in my blood_ [^e]: Psalm 30:9 Or _to corruption_
