---
Aliases: [Psalms 41]
previous: ['Ps 40']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 42']
---
# Psalms 41

***






###### 1 


Blessed is the one who considers the poor![^a] In the day of trouble the LORD delivers him; 





###### 2 


the LORD protects him and keeps him alive; he is called blessed in the land; you do not give him up to the will of his enemies. 





###### 3 


The LORD sustains him on his sickbed; in his illness you restore him to full health.[^b] 





###### 4 


As for me, I said, "O LORD, be gracious to me; heal me,[^c] for I have sinned against you!" 





###### 5 


My enemies say of me in malice, "When will he die, and his name perish?" 





###### 6 


And when one comes to see me, he utters empty words, while his heart gathers iniquity; when he goes out, he tells it abroad. 





###### 7 


All who hate me whisper together about me; they imagine the worst for me.[^d] 





###### 8 


They say, "A deadly thing is poured out[^e] on him; he will not rise again from where he lies." 





###### 9 


Even my close friend in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, has lifted his heel against me. 





###### 10 


But you, O LORD, be gracious to me, and raise me up, that I may repay them! 





###### 11 


By this I know that you delight in me: my enemy will not shout in triumph over me. 





###### 12 


But you have upheld me because of my integrity, and set me in your presence forever. 





###### 13 


Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting! Amen and Amen. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 41:1 Or _weak_ [^b]: Psalm 41:3 Hebrew _you turn all his bed_ [^c]: Psalm 41:4 Hebrew _my soul_ [^d]: Psalm 41:7 Or _they devise evil against me_ [^e]: Psalm 41:8 Or _has fastened_
