---
Aliases: [Psalms 59]
previous: ['Ps 58']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 60']
---
# Psalms 59

***






###### 1 


Deliver me from my enemies, O my God; protect me from those who rise up against me; 





###### 2 


deliver me from those who work evil, and save me from bloodthirsty men. 





###### 3 


For behold, they lie in wait for my life; fierce men stir up strife against me. For no transgression or sin of mine, O LORD, 





###### 4 


for no fault of mine, they run and make ready. Awake, come to meet me, and see! 





###### 5 


You, LORD God of hosts, are God of Israel. Rouse yourself to punish all the nations; spare none of those who treacherously plot evil. Selah 





###### 6 


Each evening they come back, howling like dogs and prowling about the city. 





###### 7 


There they are, bellowing with their mouths with swords in their lips-- for "Who," they think,[^b] "will hear us?" 





###### 8 


But you, O LORD, laugh at them; you hold all the nations in derision. 





###### 9 


O my Strength, I will watch for you, for you, O God, are my fortress. 





###### 10 


My God in his steadfast love[^c] will meet me; God will let me look in triumph on my enemies. 





###### 11 


Kill them not, lest my people forget; make them totter[^d] by your power and bring them down, O Lord, our shield! 





###### 12 


For the sin of their mouths, the words of their lips, let them be trapped in their pride. For the cursing and lies that they utter, 





###### 13 


consume them in wrath; consume them till they are no more, that they may know that God rules over Jacob to the ends of the earth. Selah 





###### 14 


Each evening they come back, howling like dogs and prowling about the city. 





###### 15 


They wander about for food and growl if they do not get their fill. 





###### 16 


But I will sing of your strength; I will sing aloud of your steadfast love in the morning. For you have been to me a fortress and a refuge in the day of my distress. 





###### 17 


O my Strength, I will sing praises to you, for you, O God, are my fortress, the God who shows me steadfast love. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 59:1 Probably a musical or liturgical term [^b]: Psalm 59:7 Hebrew lacks _they think_ [^c]: Psalm 59:10 Or _The God who shows me steadfast love_ [^d]: Psalm 59:11 Or _wander_
