---
Aliases: [Psalms 60]
previous: ['Ps 59']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 61']
---
# Psalms 60

***






###### 1 


O God, you have rejected us, broken our defenses; you have been angry; oh, restore us. 





###### 2 


You have made the land to quake; you have torn it open; repair its breaches, for it totters. 





###### 3 


You have made your people see hard things; you have given us wine to drink that made us stagger. 





###### 4 


You have set up a banner for those who fear you, that they may flee to it from the bow.[^b] Selah 





###### 5 


That your beloved ones may be delivered, give salvation by your right hand and answer us! 





###### 6 


God has spoken in his holiness:[^c] "With exultation I will divide up Shechem and portion out the Vale of Succoth. 





###### 7 


Gilead is mine; Manasseh is mine; Ephraim is my helmet; Judah is my scepter. 





###### 8 


Moab is my washbasin; upon Edom I cast my shoe; over Philistia I shout in triumph."[^d] 





###### 9 


Who will bring me to the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom? 





###### 10 


Have you not rejected us, O God? You do not go forth, O God, with our armies. 





###### 11 


Oh, grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man! 





###### 12 


With God we shall do valiantly; it is he who will tread down our foes. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 60:1 Probably musical or liturgical terms [^b]: Psalm 60:4 Or _that it may be displayed because of truth_ [^c]: Psalm 60:6 Or _sanctuary_ [^d]: Psalm 60:8 Revocalization (compare [Psalm 108:10]); Masoretic Text _over me, O Philistia, shout in triumph_
