---
Aliases: [Psalms 84]
previous: ['Ps 83']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 85']
---
# Psalms 84

***






###### 1 


How lovely is your dwelling place, O LORD of hosts! 





###### 2 


My soul longs, yes, faints for the courts of the LORD; my heart and flesh sing for joy to the living God. 





###### 3 


Even the sparrow finds a home, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, at your altars, O LORD of hosts, my King and my God. 





###### 4 


Blessed are those who dwell in your house, ever singing your praise! Selah 





###### 5 


Blessed are those whose strength is in you, in whose heart are the highways to Zion.[^b] 





###### 6 


As they go through the Valley of Baca they make it a place of springs; the early rain also covers it with pools. 





###### 7 


They go from strength to strength; each one appears before God in Zion. 





###### 8 


O LORD God of hosts, hear my prayer; give ear, O God of Jacob! Selah 





###### 9 


Behold our shield, O God; look on the face of your anointed! 





###### 10 


For a day in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness. 





###### 11 


For the LORD God is a sun and shield; the LORD bestows favor and honor. No good thing does he withhold from those who walk uprightly. 





###### 12 


O LORD of hosts, blessed is the one who trusts in you! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 84:1 Probably a musical or liturgical term [^b]: Psalm 84:5 Hebrew lacks _to Zion_
