---
Aliases: [Psalms 88]
previous: ['Ps 87']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 89']
---
# Psalms 88

***






###### 1 


O LORD, God of my salvation, I cry out day and night before you. 





###### 2 


Let my prayer come before you; incline your ear to my cry! 





###### 3 


For my soul is full of troubles, and my life draws near to Sheol. 





###### 4 


I am counted among those who go down to the pit; I am a man who has no strength, 





###### 5 


like one set loose among the dead, like the slain that lie in the grave, like those whom you remember no more, for they are cut off from your hand. 





###### 6 


You have put me in the depths of the pit, in the regions dark and deep. 





###### 7 


Your wrath lies heavy upon me, and you overwhelm me with all your waves. Selah 





###### 8 


You have caused my companions to shun me; you have made me a horror[^b] to them. I am shut in so that I cannot escape; 





###### 9 


my eye grows dim through sorrow. Every day I call upon you, O LORD; I spread out my hands to you. 





###### 10 


Do you work wonders for the dead? Do the departed rise up to praise you? Selah 





###### 11 


Is your steadfast love declared in the grave, or your faithfulness in Abaddon? 





###### 12 


Are your wonders known in the darkness, or your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness? 





###### 13 


But I, O LORD, cry to you; in the morning my prayer comes before you. 





###### 14 


O LORD, why do you cast my soul away? Why do you hide your face from me? 





###### 15 


Afflicted and close to death from my youth up, I suffer your terrors; I am helpless.[^c] 





###### 16 


Your wrath has swept over me; your dreadful assaults destroy me. 





###### 17 


They surround me like a flood all day long; they close in on me together. 





###### 18 


You have caused my beloved and my friend to shun me; my companions have become darkness.[^d] ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 88:1 Probably musical or liturgical terms [^b]: Psalm 88:8 Or _an abomination_ [^c]: Psalm 88:15 The meaning of the Hebrew word is uncertain [^d]: Psalm 88:18 Or _darkness has become my only companion_
