---
Aliases: [Psalms 90]
previous: ['Ps 89']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 91']
---
# Psalms 90

***






###### 1 


Lord, you have been our dwelling place[^a] in all generations. 





###### 2 


Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had formed the earth and the world, from everlasting to everlasting you are God. 





###### 3 


You return man to dust and say, "Return, O children of man!"[^b] 





###### 4 


For a thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday when it is past, or as a watch in the night. 





###### 5 


You sweep them away as with a flood; they are like a dream, like grass that is renewed in the morning: 





###### 6 


in the morning it flourishes and is renewed; in the evening it fades and withers. 





###### 7 


For we are brought to an end by your anger; by your wrath we are dismayed. 





###### 8 


You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence. 





###### 9 


For all our days pass away under your wrath; we bring our years to an end like a sigh. 





###### 10 


The years of our life are seventy, or even by reason of strength eighty; yet their span[^c] is but toil and trouble; they are soon gone, and we fly away. 





###### 11 


Who considers the power of your anger, and your wrath according to the fear of you? 





###### 12 


So teach us to number our days that we may get a heart of wisdom. 





###### 13 


Return, O LORD! How long? Have pity on your servants! 





###### 14 


Satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. 





###### 15 


Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us, and for as many years as we have seen evil. 





###### 16 


Let your work be shown to your servants, and your glorious power to their children. 





###### 17 


Let the favor[^d] of the Lord our God be upon us, and establish the work of our hands upon us; yes, establish the work of our hands! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 90:1 Some Hebrew manuscripts (compare Septuagint) _our refuge_ [^b]: Psalm 90:3 Or _of Adam_ [^c]: Psalm 90:10 Or _pride_ [^d]: Psalm 90:17 Or _beauty_
