---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 21]
previous: ['1 Chr 20']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 22']
---
# 1 Chronicles 21

***


###### 1 
Now Satan stood up against Israel, and moved David to [^a]number Israel. 

###### 2 
So David said to Joab and to the leaders of the people, "Go, number Israel from Beersheba to Dan, and bring the number of them to me that I may know _it._" 

###### 3 
And Joab answered, "May the Lord make His people a hundred times more than they are. But, my lord the king, _are_ they not all my lord's servants? Why then does my lord require this thing? Why should he be a cause of guilt in Israel?" 

###### 4 
Nevertheless the king's word prevailed against Joab. Therefore Joab departed and went throughout all Israel and came to Jerusalem. 

###### 5 
Then Joab gave the sum of the number of the people to David. All Israel _had_ one million one hundred thousand men who drew the sword, and Judah _had_ four hundred and seventy thousand men who drew the sword. 

###### 6 
But he did not count Levi and Benjamin among them, for the king's [^b]word was abominable to Joab. 

###### 7 
And [^c]God was displeased with this thing; therefore He struck Israel. 

###### 8 
So David said to God, "I have sinned greatly, because I have done this thing; but now, I pray, take away the iniquity of Your servant, for I have done very foolishly." 

###### 9 
Then the Lord spoke to Gad, David's seer, saying, 

###### 10 
"Go and tell David, saying, 'Thus says the Lord: "I offer you three _things;_ choose one of them for yourself, that I may do _it_ to you." ' " 

###### 11 
So Gad came to David and said to him, "Thus says the Lord: 'Choose for yourself, 

###### 12 
either [^d]three years of famine, or three months to be defeated by your foes with the sword of your enemies overtaking _you,_ or else for three days the sword of the Lord--the plague in the land, with the [^e]angel of the Lord destroying throughout all the territory of Israel.' Now consider what answer I should take back to Him who sent me." 

###### 13 
And David said to Gad, "I am in great distress. Please let me fall into the hand of the Lord, for His mercies _are_ very great; but do not let me fall into the hand of man." 

###### 14 
So the Lord sent a plague upon Israel, and seventy thousand men of Israel fell. 

###### 15 
And God sent [^f]an angel to Jerusalem to destroy it. As [^g]he was destroying, the Lord looked and relented of the disaster, and said to the angel who was destroying, "It is enough; now restrain [^h]your hand." And the angel of the Lord stood by the threshing floor of [^i]Ornan the Jebusite. 

###### 16 
Then David lifted his eyes and saw the angel of the Lord standing between earth and heaven, having in his hand a drawn sword stretched out over Jerusalem. So David and the elders, clothed in sackcloth, fell on their faces. 

###### 17 
And David said to God, "Was it not I who commanded the people to be numbered? I am the one who has sinned and done evil indeed; but these sheep, what have they done? Let Your hand, I pray, O Lord my God, be against me and my father's house, but not against Your people that they should be plagued." 

###### 18 
Therefore, the angel of the Lord commanded Gad to say to David that David should go and erect an altar to the Lord on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 

###### 19 
So David went up at the word of Gad, which he had spoken in the name of the Lord. 

###### 20 
Now Ornan turned and saw the angel; and his four sons _who were_ with him hid themselves, but Ornan continued threshing wheat. 

###### 21 
So David came to Ornan, and Ornan looked and saw David. And he went out from the threshing floor, and bowed before David with _his_ face to the ground. 

###### 22 
Then David said to Ornan, [^j]"Grant me the place of _this_ threshing floor, that I may build an altar on it to the Lord. You shall grant it to me at the full price, that the plague may be withdrawn from the people." 

###### 23 
But Ornan said to David, "Take _it_ to yourself, and let my lord the king do _what is_ good in his eyes. Look, I _also_ give _you_ the oxen for burnt offerings, the threshing implements for wood, and the wheat for the grain offering; I give _it_ all." 

###### 24 
Then King David said to Ornan, "No, but I will surely buy _it_ for the full price, for I will not take what is yours for the Lord, nor offer burnt offerings with _that which_ costs _me_ nothing." 

###### 25 
So David gave Ornan six hundred shekels of gold by weight for the place. 

###### 26 
And David built there an altar to the Lord, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings, and called on the Lord; and He answered him from heaven by fire on the altar of burnt offering. 

###### 27 
So the Lord commanded the angel, and he returned his sword to its sheath. 

###### 28 
At that time, when David saw that the Lord had answered him on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite, he sacrificed there. 

###### 29 
For the tabernacle of the Lord and the altar of the burnt offering, which Moses had made in the wilderness, _were_ at that time at the high place in Gibeon. 

###### 30 
But David could not go before it to inquire of God, for he was afraid of the sword of the angel of the Lord. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 21:1 _take a census of_ [^b]: 1 Chronicles 21:6 _command_ [^c]: 1 Chronicles 21:7 Lit. _it was evil in the eyes of God_ [^d]: 1 Chronicles 21:12 _seven,_ [2 Sam. 24:13] [^e]: 1 Chronicles 21:12 Or _Angel,_ and so throughout the chapter [^f]: 1 Chronicles 21:15 Or _the Angel_ [^g]: 1 Chronicles 21:15 Or _He_ [^h]: 1 Chronicles 21:15 Or _Your_ [^i]: 1 Chronicles 21:15 _Araunah,_ [2 Sam. 24:16], [18–24] [^j]: 1 Chronicles 21:22 Lit. _Give_
