---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 20]
previous: ['1 Chr 19']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 21']
---
# 1 Chronicles 20

***


###### 1 
It happened [^a]in the spring of the year, at the time kings go out _to battle,_ that Joab led out the armed forces and ravaged the country of the people of Ammon, and came and besieged Rabbah. But David stayed at Jerusalem. And Joab defeated Rabbah and overthrew it. 

###### 2 
Then David took their king's crown from his head, and found it to weigh a talent of gold, and _there were_ precious stones in it. And it was set on David's head. Also he brought out the [^b]spoil of the city in great abundance. 

###### 3 
And he brought out the people who _were_ in it, and [^c]put _them_ to work with saws, with iron picks, and with axes. So David did to all the cities of the people of Ammon. Then David and all the people returned _to_ Jerusalem. ## Philistine Giants Destroyed 

###### 4 
Now it happened afterward that war broke out at [^d]Gezer with the Philistines, at which time Sibbechai the Hushathite killed [^e]Sippai, _who was one_ of the sons of [^f]the giant. And they were subdued. 

###### 5 
Again there was war with the Philistines, and Elhanan the son of [^g]Jair killed Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, the shaft of whose spear _was_ like a weaver's beam. 

###### 6 
Yet again there was war at Gath, where there was a man of _great_ stature, with twenty-four fingers and toes, six _on each hand_ and six _on each foot;_ and he also was born to [^h]the giant. 

###### 7 
So when he defied Israel, Jonathan the son of [^i]Shimea, David's brother, killed him. 

###### 8 
These were born to the giant in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 20:1 Lit. _at the return of the year_ [^b]: 1 Chronicles 20:2 _plunder_ [^c]: 1 Chronicles 20:3 LXX _cut them with_ [^d]: 1 Chronicles 20:4 _Gob,_ [2 Sam. 21:18] [^e]: 1 Chronicles 20:4 _Saph,_ [2 Sam. 21:18] [^f]: 1 Chronicles 20:4 Or _Raphah_ [^g]: 1 Chronicles 20:5 _Jaare-Oregim,_ [2 Sam. 21:19] [^h]: 1 Chronicles 20:6 Or _Raphah_ [^i]: 1 Chronicles 20:7 _Shammah,_ [1 Sam. 16:9] or _Shimeah,_ [2 Sam. 21:21]
