---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 28]
previous: ['1 Chr 27']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 29']
---
# 1 Chronicles 28

***


###### 1 
Now David assembled at Jerusalem all the leaders of Israel: the officers of the tribes and the captains of the divisions who served the king, the captains over thousands and captains over hundreds, and the stewards over all the substance and [^a]possessions of the king and of his sons, with the officials, the valiant men, and all the mighty men of valor. 

###### 2 
Then King David rose to his feet and said, "Hear me, my brethren and my people: I _had_ it in my heart to build a house of rest for the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and for the footstool of our God, and had made preparations to build it. 

###### 3 
But God said to me, 'You shall not build a house for My name, because you _have been_ a man of war and have shed blood.' 

###### 4 
However the Lord God of Israel chose me above all the house of my father to be king over Israel forever, for He has chosen Judah _to be_ the ruler. And of the house of Judah, the house of my father, and among the sons of my father, He was pleased with me to make _me_ king over all Israel. 

###### 5 
And of all my sons (for the Lord has given me many sons) He has chosen my son Solomon to sit on the throne of the kingdom of the Lord over Israel. 

###### 6 
Now He said to me, 'It is your son Solomon _who_ shall build My house and My courts; for I have chosen him _to be_ My son, and I will be his Father. 

###### 7 
Moreover I will establish his kingdom forever, if he is steadfast to observe My commandments and My judgments, as it is this day.' 

###### 8 
Now therefore, in the sight of all Israel, the assembly of the Lord, and in the hearing of our God, be careful to seek out all the commandments of the Lord your God, that you may possess this good land, and leave _it_ as an inheritance for your children after you forever. 

###### 9 
"As for you, my son Solomon, know the God of your father, and serve Him with a loyal heart and with a willing mind; for the Lord searches all hearts and understands all the intent of the thoughts. If you seek Him, He will be found by you; but if you forsake Him, He will cast you off forever. 

###### 10 
Consider now, for the Lord has chosen you to build a house for the sanctuary; be strong, and do it." 

###### 11 
Then David gave his son Solomon the plans for the vestibule, its houses, its treasuries, its upper chambers, its inner chambers, and the place of the mercy seat; 

###### 12 
and the plans for all that he had by the Spirit, of the courts of the house of the Lord, of all the chambers all around, of the treasuries of the house of God, and of the treasuries for the dedicated things; 

###### 13 
also for the division of the priests and the Levites, for all the work of the service of the house of the Lord, and for all the articles of service in the house of the Lord. 

###### 14 
_He gave_ gold by weight for _things_ of gold, for all articles used in every kind of service; also _silver_ for all articles of silver by weight, for all articles used in every kind of service; 

###### 15 
the weight for the lampstands of gold, and their lamps of gold, by weight for each lampstand and its lamps; for the lampstands of silver by weight, for the lampstand and its lamps, according to the use of each lampstand. 

###### 16 
And by weight _he gave_ gold for the tables of the showbread, for each table, and silver for the tables of silver; 

###### 17 
also pure gold for the forks, the basins, the pitchers of pure gold, and the golden bowls--_he gave gold_ by weight for every bowl; and for the silver bowls, _silver_ by weight for every bowl; 

###### 18 
and refined gold by weight for the altar of incense, and for the construction of the chariot, that is, the gold cherubim that spread _their wings_ and overshadowed the ark of the covenant of the Lord. 

###### 19 
"All _this,_" _said David,_ "the Lord made me understand in writing, by _His_ hand upon me, all the [^b]works of these plans." 

###### 20 
And David said to his son Solomon, "Be strong and of good courage, and do _it;_ do not fear nor be dismayed, for the Lord God--my God--_will be_ with you. He will not leave you nor forsake you, until you have finished all the work for the service of the house of the Lord. 

###### 21 
_Here are_ the divisions of the priests and the Levites for all the service of the house of God; and every willing craftsman _will be_ with you for all manner of workmanship, for every kind of service; also the leaders and all the people _will be_ completely at your command." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 28:1 Or _livestock_ [^b]: 1 Chronicles 28:19 _details_
