---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 24]
previous: ['1 Chr 23']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 25']
---
# 1 Chronicles 24

***


###### 1 
Now _these are_ the divisions of the sons of Aaron. The sons of Aaron _were_ Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 

###### 2 
And Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and had no children; therefore Eleazar and Ithamar ministered as priests. 

###### 3 
Then David with Zadok of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, divided them according to the schedule of their service. 

###### 4 
There were more leaders found of the sons of Eleazar than of the sons of Ithamar, and _thus_ they were divided. Among the sons of Eleazar _were_ sixteen heads of _their_ fathers' houses, and eight heads of their fathers' houses among the sons of Ithamar. 

###### 5 
Thus they were divided by lot, one group as another, for there were officials of the sanctuary and officials _of the house_ of God, from the sons of Eleazar and from the sons of Ithamar. 

###### 6 
And the scribe, Shemaiah the son of Nethanel, _one of_ the Levites, wrote them down before the king, the leaders, Zadok the priest, Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, and the heads of the fathers' _houses_ of the priests and Levites, one father's house taken for Eleazar and _one_ for Ithamar. 

###### 7 
Now the first lot fell to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah, 

###### 8 
the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim, 

###### 9 
the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin, 

###### 10 
the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah, 

###### 11 
the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah, 

###### 12 
the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim, 

###### 13 
the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab, 

###### 14 
the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer, 

###### 15 
the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to [^a]Happizzez, 

###### 16 
the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to [^b]Jehezekel, 

###### 17 
the twenty-first to Jachin, the twenty-second to Gamul, 

###### 18 
the twenty-third to Delaiah, the twenty-fourth to Maaziah. 

###### 19 
This _was_ the schedule of their service for coming into the house of the Lord according to their ordinance by the hand of Aaron their father, as the Lord God of Israel had commanded him. ## Other Levites 

###### 20 
And the rest of the sons of Levi: of the sons of Amram, [^c]Shubael; of the sons of Shubael, Jehdeiah. 

###### 21 
Concerning Rehabiah, of the sons of Rehabiah, the first _was_ Isshiah. 

###### 22 
Of the Izharites, [^d]Shelomoth; of the sons of Shelomoth, Jahath. 

###### 23 
Of the sons [^e]_of_ _Hebron_, Jeriah _was the first,_ Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, _and_ Jekameam the fourth. 

###### 24 
_Of_ the sons of Uzziel, Michah; of the sons of Michah, Shamir. 

###### 25 
The brother of Michah, Isshiah; of the sons of Isshiah, Zechariah. 

###### 26 
The sons of Merari _were_ Mahli and Mushi; the son of Jaaziah, Beno. 

###### 27 
The sons of Merari by Jaaziah _were_ Beno, Shoham, Zaccur, and Ibri. 

###### 28 
Of Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons. 

###### 29 
Of Kish: the son of Kish, Jerahmeel. 

###### 30 
Also the sons of Mushi _were_ Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. These _were_ the sons of the Levites according to their fathers' houses. 

###### 31 
These also cast lots just as their brothers the sons of Aaron did, in the presence of King David, Zadok, Ahimelech, and the heads of the fathers' _houses_ of the priests and Levites. The chief fathers _did_ just as their younger brethren. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 24:15 LXX, Vg. _Aphses_ [^b]: 1 Chronicles 24:16 MT _Jehezkel_ [^c]: 1 Chronicles 24:20 _Shebuel,_ [1 Chr. 23:16] [^d]: 1 Chronicles 24:22 _Shelomith,_ [1 Chr. 23:18] [^e]: 1 Chronicles 24:23 Supplied from [23:19] (following some Heb. mss. and LXX mss.)
