---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 27]
previous: ['2 Chr 26']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 28']
---
# 2 Chronicles 27

***






###### 1 


Jotham was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jerushah the daughter of Zadok. 





###### 2 


And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD according to all that his father Uzziah had done, except he did not enter the temple of the LORD. But the people still followed corrupt practices. 





###### 3 


He built the upper gate of the house of the LORD and did much building on the wall of Ophel. 





###### 4 


Moreover, he built cities in the hill country of Judah, and forts and towers on the wooded hills. 





###### 5 


He fought with the king of the Ammonites and prevailed against them. And the Ammonites gave him that year 100 talents[^a] of silver, and 10,000 cors[^b] of wheat and 10,000 of barley. The Ammonites paid him the same amount in the second and the third years. 





###### 6 


So Jotham became mighty, because he ordered his ways before the LORD his God. 





###### 7 


Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all his wars and his ways, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah. 





###### 8 


He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. 





###### 9 


And Jotham slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David, and Ahaz his son reigned in his place. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 27:5 A _talent_ was about 75 pounds or 34 kilograms [^b]: 2 Chronicles 27:5 A _cor_ was about 6 bushels or 220 liters
