---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 17]
previous: ['2 Chr 16']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 18']
---
# 2 Chronicles 17

***










###### 1 




His son Jehoshaphat became king in his place and strengthened himself against Israel. 









###### 2 




He stationed troops in every fortified city of Judah and set garrisons in the land of Judah and in the cities of Ephraim that his father Asa had captured. 









###### 3 




Now the Lord was with Jehoshaphat because he walked in the former ways of his ancestor David.[^a] He did not seek the Baals 









###### 4 




but sought the God of his father and walked by his commands, not according to the practices of Israel. 









###### 5 




So the Lord established the kingdom in his hand. Then all Judah brought him tribute, and he had riches and honor in abundance. 









###### 6 




He took great pride in the Lord's ways, and he again removed the high places and Asherah poles from Judah. ## Jehoshaphat's Educational Plan 









###### 7 




In the third year of his reign, Jehoshaphat sent his officials--Ben-hail,[^b] Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel, and Micaiah--to teach in the cities of Judah. 









###### 8 




The Levites with them were Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah,[^c] Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah, and Tob-adonijah; the priests, Elishama and Jehoram, were with these Levites. 









###### 9 




They taught throughout Judah, having the book of the Lord's instruction with them. They went throughout the towns of Judah and taught the people. 









###### 10 




The terror of the Lord was on all the kingdoms of the lands that surrounded Judah, so they didn't fight against Jehoshaphat. 









###### 11 




Some of the Philistines also brought gifts and silver as tribute to Jehoshaphat, and the Arabs brought him flocks: 7,700 rams and 7,700 male goats. ## Jehoshaphat's Military Might 









###### 12 




Jehoshaphat grew stronger and stronger. He built fortresses and storage cities in Judah 









###### 13 




and carried out great works in the towns of Judah. He had fighting men, valiant warriors, in Jerusalem. 









###### 14 




These are their numbers according to their ancestral families.[^d] For Judah, the commanders of thousands: Adnah the commander and three hundred thousand valiant warriors with him; 









###### 15 




next to him, Jehohanan the commander and two hundred eighty thousand with him; 









###### 16 




next to him, Amasiah son of Zichri, the volunteer of the Lord, and two hundred thousand valiant warriors with him; 









###### 17 




from Benjamin, Eliada, a valiant warrior, and two hundred thousand with him armed with bow and shield; 









###### 18 




next to him, Jehozabad and one hundred eighty thousand with him equipped for war. 









###### 19 




These were the ones who served the king, besides those he stationed in the fortified cities throughout all Judah. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 17:3 Some Hb mss, LXX omit <em>David</em> [^b]: 17:7 = Son of Power [^c]: 17:8 Some Hb mss, Syr, Tg, Arabic read <em>Zechariah</em> [^d]: 17:14 Lit <em>the house of their fathers</em>
