---
Aliases: [2 Corinthians 12]
previous: ['2 Cor 11']
up: ['2 Corinthians']
next: ['2 Cor 13']
---
# 2 Corinthians 12

***














###### 1 






True, there is nothing to be gained by it, but [as I am obliged] to boast, I will go on to visions and revelations of the Lord. 













###### 2 






I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago--whether in the body or out of the body I do not know, God knows--was caught up to the third heaven. 













###### 3 






And I know that this man--whether in the body or away from the body I do not know, God knows-- 













###### 4 






Was caught up into paradise, and he heard utterances beyond the power of man to put into words, which man is not permitted to utter. 













###### 5 






Of this same [man's experiences] I will boast, but of myself (personally) I will not boast, except as regards my infirmities (my weaknesses). 













###### 6 






Should I desire to boast, I shall not be a witless braggart, for I shall be speaking the truth. But I abstain [from it] so that no one may form a higher estimate of me than [is justified by] what he sees in me or hears from me. 













###### 7 






And to keep me from being puffed up _and_ too much elated by the exceeding greatness (preeminence) of these revelations, there was given me a thorn ([^a]a splinter) in the flesh, a messenger of Satan, to rack _and_ buffet _and_ harass me, to keep me from being excessively exalted. 













###### 8 






Three times I called upon the Lord _and_ besought [Him] about this _and_ begged that it might depart from me; 













###### 9 






But He said to me, My grace (My favor and loving-kindness and mercy) is enough for you [sufficient against any danger and enables you to bear the trouble manfully]; for _My_ strength _and_ power are made perfect (fulfilled and completed) _and_ [^b]_show themselves most effective_ in [your] weakness. Therefore, I will all the more gladly glory in my weaknesses _and_ infirmities, that the strength _and_ power of Christ (the Messiah) may rest (yes, may [^c]pitch a tent over and dwell) upon me! 













###### 10 






So for the sake of Christ, I am well pleased _and_ take pleasure in infirmities, insults, hardships, persecutions, perplexities _and_ distresses; for when I am weak [[^d]in human strength], then am I [truly] strong (able, powerful [^e]in divine strength). 













###### 11 






Now I have been [speaking like] a fool! But you forced me to it, for I ought to have been [[^f]saved the necessity and] commended by you. For I have not fallen short one bit _or_ proved myself at all inferior to those superlative [false] apostles [of yours], even if I am nothing (a nobody). 













###### 12 






Indeed, the signs that indicate a [genuine] apostle were performed among you fully _and_ most patiently in miracles and wonders and mighty works. 













###### 13 






For in what respect were you put to a disadvantage in comparison with the rest of the churches, unless [it was for the fact] that I myself did not burden you [with my financial support]? Pardon me [for doing you] this injustice! 













###### 14 






Now for the third time I am ready to come to [visit] you. And I will not burden you [financially], for it is not your [money] that I want but you; for children are not duty bound to lay up store for their parents, but parents for their children. 













###### 15 






But I will most gladly spend [myself] and be utterly spent for your souls. If I love you exceedingly, am I to be loved [by you] the less? 













###### 16 






But though granting that I did not burden you [with my support, some say that] I was crafty [and that] I cheated _and_ got the better of you with my trickery. 













###### 17 






Did I [then] take advantage of you _or_ make any money out of you through any of those [messengers] whom I sent to you? 













###### 18 






[Actually] I urged Titus [to go], and I sent the brother with [him]. Did Titus overreach _or_ take advantage of you [in anything]? Did he _and_ I not act in the same spirit? Did we not [take the] same steps? 













###### 19 






Have you been supposing [all this time] that we have been defending ourselves _and_ apologizing to you? [It is] in the sight _and_ the [very] presence of God [and as one] in Christ (the Messiah) that we have been speaking, dearly beloved, and all in order to build you up [spiritually]. 













###### 20 






For I am fearful that somehow or other I may come and find you not as I desire to find you, and that you may find me too not as you want to find me--that perhaps there may be factions (quarreling), jealousy, temper (wrath, intrigues, rivalry, divided loyalties), selfishness, whispering, gossip, arrogance (self-assertion), and disorder among you. 













###### 21 






[I am fearful] that when I come again, my God may humiliate _and_ humble me in your regard, and that I may have to sorrow over many of those who sinned before and have not repented of the impurity, sexual vice, and sensuality which they formerly practiced. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Corinthians 12:7 James Moulton and George Milligan, _The Vocabulary of the Greek Testament_. [^b]: 2 Corinthians 12:9 Two Greek texts so read. [^c]: 2 Corinthians 12:9 Marvin Vincent, _Word Studies_. [^d]: 2 Corinthians 12:10 Joseph Thayer, _A Greek-English Lexicon_. [^e]: 2 Corinthians 12:10 Joseph Thayer, _A Greek-English Lexicon_. [^f]: 2 Corinthians 12:11 Marvin Vincent, _Word Studies_.
