---
Aliases: [2 Corinthians 10]
previous: ['2 Cor 9']
up: ['2 Corinthians']
next: ['2 Cor 11']
---
# 2 Corinthians 10

***


###### 1 


Now I myself, Paul, beseech you, by the gentleness and consideration of Christ [Himself; I] who [am] lowly enough [so they say] when among you face to face, but bold (fearless and outspoken) to you when [I am] absent from you! 


###### 2 


I entreat you when I do come [to you] that I may not [be driven to such] boldness as I intend to show toward those few who suspect us of acting according to the flesh [on the low level of worldly motives and as if invested with only human powers]. 


###### 3 


For though we walk (live) in the flesh, we are not carrying on our warfare according to the flesh _and_ using mere human weapons. 


###### 4 


For the weapons of our warfare are not physical [weapons of flesh and blood], but they are mighty before God for the overthrow _and_ destruction of strongholds, 


###### 5 


[Inasmuch as we] refute arguments _and_ theories _and_ reasonings and every proud _and_ lofty thing that sets itself up against the [true] knowledge of God; and we lead every thought _and_ purpose away captive into the obedience of Christ (the Messiah, the Anointed One), 


###### 6 


Being in readiness to punish every [insubordinate for his] disobedience, when your own submission _and_ obedience [as a church] are fully secured _and_ complete. 


###### 7 


Look at [this obvious fact] which is before your eyes. If anyone is confident that he is Christ's, let him reflect _and_ remind himself that even as he is Christ's, so too are we. 


###### 8 


For even though I boast rather freely about our power _and_ authority, which the Lord gave for your upbuilding and not for demolishing you, yet I shall not be put to shame [for exceeding the truth], 


###### 9 


Neither would I seem to be overawing _or_ frightening you with my letters; 


###### 10 


For they say, His letters are weighty _and_ impressive and forceful _and_ telling, but his personality _and_ bodily presence are weak, and his speech _and_ delivery are utterly contemptible (of no account). 


###### 11 


Let such people realize that what we say by letters when we are absent, [we put] also into deeds when we are present-- 


###### 12 


Not that we [have the audacity to] venture to class or [even to] compare ourselves with some who exalt _and_ furnish testimonials for themselves! However, when they measure themselves with themselves and compare themselves with one another, they are without understanding _and_ behave unwisely. 


###### 13 


We, on the other hand, will not boast beyond our legitimate province _and_ proper limit, but will keep within the limits [of our commission which] God has allotted us as our measuring line and which reaches _and_ includes even you. 


###### 14 


For we are not overstepping the limits of our province _and_ stretching beyond our ability to reach, as though we reached not (had no legitimate mission) to you, for we were [the very first] to come even as far as to you with the good news (the Gospel) of Christ. 


###### 15 


We do not boast therefore, beyond our proper limit, over other men's labors, but we have the hope _and_ confident expectation that as your faith continues to grow, our field among you may be greatly enlarged, still within the limits of our commission, 


###### 16 


So that [we may even] preach the Gospel in lands [lying] beyond you, without making a boast of work already done in another [man's] sphere of activity [before we came on the scene]. 


###### 17 


However, let him who boasts _and_ glories boast _and_ glory in the Lord. 


###### 18 


For [it is] not [the man] who praises _and_ commends himself who is approved _and_ accepted, but [it is the person] whom the Lord accredits _and_ commends.
