---
Aliases: [2 Corinthians 13]
previous: ['2 Cor 12']
up: ['2 Corinthians']
---
# 2 Corinthians 13

***














###### 1 






This is the third time that I am coming to you. By the testimony of two or three witnesses must any charge _and_ every accusing statement be sustained _and_ confirmed. 













###### 2 






I have already warned those who sinned formerly and all the rest also, and I warn them now again while I am absent, as I did when present on my second visit, that if I come back, I will not spare [them], 













###### 3 






Since you desire _and_ seek [perceptible] proof of the Christ Who speaks in _and_ through me. [For He] is not weak _and_ feeble in dealing with you, but is a mighty power within you; 













###### 4 






For though He was crucified in weakness, yet He goes on living by the power of God. And though we too are weak in Him [as He was humanly weak], yet in dealing with you [we shall show ourselves] alive _and_ strong in [fellowship with] Him by the power of God. 













###### 5 






Examine _and_ test _and_ evaluate your own selves to see whether you are holding to your faith _and_ showing the proper fruits of it. Test _and_ prove yourselves [not Christ]. Do you not yourselves realize _and_ know [thoroughly by an ever-increasing experience] that Jesus Christ is in you--unless you are [counterfeits] disapproved on trial _and_ rejected? 













###### 6 






But I hope you will recognize _and_ know that we are not disapproved on trial _and_ rejected. 













###### 7 






But I pray to God that you may do nothing wrong, not in order that we [our teaching] may appear to be approved, but that you may continue doing right, [though] we may seem to have failed _and_ be unapproved. 













###### 8 






For we can do nothing against the Truth [not serve any party or personal interest], but only for the Truth [which is the Gospel]. 













###### 9 






For we are glad when we are weak (unapproved) and you are really strong. And this we also pray for: your all-round strengthening _and_ perfecting of soul. 













###### 10 






So I write these things while I am absent from you, that when I come to you, I may not have to deal sharply in my use of the authority which the Lord has given me [to be employed, however] for building [you] up and not for tearing [you] down. 













###### 11 






Finally, brethren, farewell (rejoice)! Be strengthened (perfected, completed, made what you ought to be); be encouraged _and_ consoled _and_ comforted; be of the same [agreeable] mind one with another; live in peace, and [then] the God of love [Who is the Source of affection, goodwill, love, and benevolence toward men] and the Author _and_ Promoter of peace will be with you. 













###### 12 






Greet one another with a consecrated kiss. 













###### 13 






All the saints (the people of God here) salute you. 













###### 14 






The grace (favor and spiritual blessing) of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the presence _and_ fellowship (the communion and sharing together, and participation) in the Holy Spirit be with you all. _Amen (so be it)._
