---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 27]
previous: ['2 Chr 26']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 28']
---
# 2 Chronicles 27

***














###### 1 






Jotham was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother was Jerushah daughter of Zadok. 













###### 2 






He did right in the sight of the Lord, to the extent of all that his father Uzziah had done. However, he did not invade the temple of the Lord. But the people still did corruptly. 













###### 3 






He built the Upper Gate of the Lord's house and did much building on the wall of Ophel. 













###### 4 






Moreover, he built cities in the hill country of Judah, and in the forests he built forts and towers. 













###### 5 






He fought with the king of the Ammonites and prevailed against them. The Ammonites gave him that year 100 talents of silver and 10,000 measures each of wheat and of barley. That much the Ammonites paid to him also the second year and third year. 













###### 6 






So Jotham grew mighty, for he ordered his ways in the sight of the Lord his God. 













###### 7 






Now the rest of Jotham's acts, and all his wars and his ways, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah. 













###### 8 






He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. 













###### 9 






And Jotham slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the City of David. Ahaz his son reigned in his stead. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
