---
Aliases: [2 Corinthians 11]
previous: ['2 Cor 10']
up: ['2 Corinthians']
next: ['2 Cor 12']
---
# 2 Corinthians 11

***




















###### 1 









I hope you will put up with me in a little foolishness. Yes, please put up with me! 



















###### 2 









I am jealous for you with a godly jealousy. I promised you to one husband, to Christ, so that I might present you as a pure virgin to him. 



















###### 3 









But I am afraid that just as Eve was deceived by the serpent's cunning, your minds may somehow be led astray from your sincere and pure devotion to Christ. 



















###### 4 









For if someone comes to you and preaches a Jesus other than the Jesus we preached, or if you receive a different spirit from the Spirit you received, or a different gospel from the one you accepted, you put up with it easily enough. 



















###### 5 









I do not think I am in the least inferior to those "super-apostles."[^a] 



















###### 6 









I may indeed be untrained as a speaker, but I do have knowledge. We have made this perfectly clear to you in every way. 



















###### 7 









Was it a sin for me to lower myself in order to elevate you by preaching the gospel of God to you free of charge? 



















###### 8 









I robbed other churches by receiving support from them so as to serve you. 



















###### 9 









And when I was with you and needed something, I was not a burden to anyone, for the brothers who came from Macedonia supplied what I needed. I have kept myself from being a burden to you in any way, and will continue to do so. 



















###### 10 









As surely as the truth of Christ is in me, nobody in the regions of Achaia will stop this boasting of mine. 



















###### 11 









Why? Because I do not love you? God knows I do! 



















###### 12 









And I will keep on doing what I am doing in order to cut the ground from under those who want an opportunity to be considered equal with us in the things they boast about. 



















###### 13 









For such people are false apostles, deceitful workers, masquerading as apostles of Christ. 



















###### 14 









And no wonder, for Satan himself masquerades as an angel of light. 



















###### 15 









It is not surprising, then, if his servants also masquerade as servants of righteousness. Their end will be what their actions deserve. ## Paul Boasts About His Sufferings 



















###### 16 









I repeat: Let no one take me for a fool. But if you do, then tolerate me just as you would a fool, so that I may do a little boasting. 



















###### 17 









In this self-confident boasting I am not talking as the Lord would, but as a fool. 



















###### 18 









Since many are boasting in the way the world does, I too will boast. 



















###### 19 









You gladly put up with fools since you are so wise! 



















###### 20 









In fact, you even put up with anyone who enslaves you or exploits you or takes advantage of you or puts on airs or slaps you in the face. 



















###### 21 









To my shame I admit that we were too weak for that! Whatever anyone else dares to boast about--I am speaking as a fool--I also dare to boast about. 



















###### 22 









Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they Abraham's descendants? So am I. 



















###### 23 









Are they servants of Christ? (I am out of my mind to talk like this.) I am more. I have worked much harder, been in prison more frequently, been flogged more severely, and been exposed to death again and again. 



















###### 24 









Five times I received from the Jews the forty lashes minus one. 



















###### 25 









Three times I was beaten with rods, once I was pelted with stones, three times I was shipwrecked, I spent a night and a day in the open sea, 



















###### 26 









I have been constantly on the move. I have been in danger from rivers, in danger from bandits, in danger from my fellow Jews, in danger from Gentiles; in danger in the city, in danger in the country, in danger at sea; and in danger from false believers. 



















###### 27 









I have labored and toiled and have often gone without sleep; I have known hunger and thirst and have often gone without food; I have been cold and naked. 



















###### 28 









Besides everything else, I face daily the pressure of my concern for all the churches. 



















###### 29 









Who is weak, and I do not feel weak? Who is led into sin, and I do not inwardly burn? 



















###### 30 









If I must boast, I will boast of the things that show my weakness. 



















###### 31 









The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, who is to be praised forever, knows that I am not lying. 



















###### 32 









In Damascus the governor under King Aretas had the city of the Damascenes guarded in order to arrest me. 



















###### 33 









But I was lowered in a basket from a window in the wall and slipped through his hands. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Corinthians 11:5 Or _to the most eminent apostles_
