---
Aliases: [2 Corinthians 12]
previous: ['2 Cor 11']
up: ['2 Corinthians']
next: ['2 Cor 13']
---
# 2 Corinthians 12

***




















###### 1 









I must go on boasting. Although there is nothing to be gained, I will go on to visions and revelations from the Lord. 



















###### 2 









I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago was caught up to the third heaven. Whether it was in the body or out of the body I do not know--God knows. 



















###### 3 









And I know that this man--whether in the body or apart from the body I do not know, but God knows-- 



















###### 4 









was caught up to paradise and heard inexpressible things, things that no one is permitted to tell. 



















###### 5 









I will boast about a man like that, but I will not boast about myself, except about my weaknesses. 



















###### 6 









Even if I should choose to boast, I would not be a fool, because I would be speaking the truth. But I refrain, so no one will think more of me than is warranted by what I do or say, 



















###### 7 









or because of these surpassingly great revelations. Therefore, in order to keep me from becoming conceited, I was given a thorn in my flesh, a messenger of Satan, to torment me. 



















###### 8 









Three times I pleaded with the Lord to take it away from me. 



















###### 9 









But he said to me, "My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness." Therefore I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses, so that Christ's power may rest on me. 



















###### 10 









That is why, for Christ's sake, I delight in weaknesses, in insults, in hardships, in persecutions, in difficulties. For when I am weak, then I am strong. ## Paul's Concern for the Corinthians 



















###### 11 









I have made a fool of myself, but you drove me to it. I ought to have been commended by you, for I am not in the least inferior to the "super-apostles,"[^a] even though I am nothing. 



















###### 12 









I persevered in demonstrating among you the marks of a true apostle, including signs, wonders and miracles. 



















###### 13 









How were you inferior to the other churches, except that I was never a burden to you? Forgive me this wrong! 



















###### 14 









Now I am ready to visit you for the third time, and I will not be a burden to you, because what I want is not your possessions but you. After all, children should not have to save up for their parents, but parents for their children. 



















###### 15 









So I will very gladly spend for you everything I have and expend myself as well. If I love you more, will you love me less? 



















###### 16 









Be that as it may, I have not been a burden to you. Yet, crafty fellow that I am, I caught you by trickery! 



















###### 17 









Did I exploit you through any of the men I sent to you? 



















###### 18 









I urged Titus to go to you and I sent our brother with him. Titus did not exploit you, did he? Did we not walk in the same footsteps by the same Spirit? 



















###### 19 









Have you been thinking all along that we have been defending ourselves to you? We have been speaking in the sight of God as those in Christ; and everything we do, dear friends, is for your strengthening. 



















###### 20 









For I am afraid that when I come I may not find you as I want you to be, and you may not find me as you want me to be. I fear that there may be discord, jealousy, fits of rage, selfish ambition, slander, gossip, arrogance and disorder. 



















###### 21 









I am afraid that when I come again my God will humble me before you, and I will be grieved over many who have sinned earlier and have not repented of the impurity, sexual sin and debauchery in which they have indulged. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Corinthians 12:11 Or _the most eminent apostles_
