---
Aliases: [Psalms 18]
previous: ['Ps 17']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 19']
---
# Psalms 18

***




###### 1 

I love you, LORD; you are my strength. 



###### 2 

The LORD is my rock, my fortress, and my savior; my God is my rock, in whom I find protection. He is my shield, the power that saves me, and my place of safety. 



###### 3 

I called on the LORD, who is worthy of praise, and he saved me from my enemies. 



###### 4 

The ropes of death entangled me; floods of destruction swept over me. 



###### 5 

The grave[^a] wrapped its ropes around me; death laid a trap in my path. 



###### 6 

But in my distress I cried out to the LORD; yes, I prayed to my God for help. He heard me from his sanctuary; my cry to him reached his ears. 



###### 7 

Then the earth quaked and trembled. The foundations of the mountains shook; they quaked because of his anger. 



###### 8 

Smoke poured from his nostrils; fierce flames leaped from his mouth. Glowing coals blazed forth from him. 



###### 9 

He opened the heavens and came down; dark storm clouds were beneath his feet. 



###### 10 

Mounted on a mighty angelic being,[^b] he flew, soaring on the wings of the wind. 



###### 11 

He shrouded himself in darkness, veiling his approach with dark rain clouds. 



###### 12 

Thick clouds shielded the brightness around him and rained down hail and burning coals.[^c] 



###### 13 

The LORD thundered from heaven; the voice of the Most High resounded amid the hail and burning coals. 



###### 14 

He shot his arrows and scattered his enemies; great bolts of lightning flashed, and they were confused. 



###### 15 

Then at your command, O LORD, at the blast of your breath, the bottom of the sea could be seen, and the foundations of the earth were laid bare. 



###### 16 

He reached down from heaven and rescued me; he drew me out of deep waters. 



###### 17 

He rescued me from my powerful enemies, from those who hated me and were too strong for me. 



###### 18 

They attacked me at a moment when I was in distress, but the LORD supported me. 



###### 19 

He led me to a place of safety; he rescued me because he delights in me. 



###### 20 

The LORD rewarded me for doing right; he restored me because of my innocence. 



###### 21 

For I have kept the ways of the LORD; I have not turned from my God to follow evil. 



###### 22 

I have followed all his regulations; I have never abandoned his decrees. 



###### 23 

I am blameless before God; I have kept myself from sin. 



###### 24 

The LORD rewarded me for doing right. He has seen my innocence. 



###### 25 

To the faithful you show yourself faithful; to those with integrity you show integrity. 



###### 26 

To the pure you show yourself pure, but to the crooked you show yourself shrewd. 



###### 27 

You rescue the humble, but you humiliate the proud. 



###### 28 

You light a lamp for me. The LORD, my God, lights up my darkness. 



###### 29 

In your strength I can crush an army; with my God I can scale any wall. 



###### 30 

God's way is perfect. All the LORD's promises prove true. He is a shield for all who look to him for protection. 



###### 31 

For who is God except the LORD? Who but our God is a solid rock? 



###### 32 

God arms me with strength, and he makes my way perfect. 



###### 33 

He makes me as surefooted as a deer, enabling me to stand on mountain heights. 



###### 34 

He trains my hands for battle; he strengthens my arm to draw a bronze bow. 



###### 35 

You have given me your shield of victory. Your right hand supports me; your help[^d] has made me great. 



###### 36 

You have made a wide path for my feet to keep them from slipping. 



###### 37 

I chased my enemies and caught them; I did not stop until they were conquered. 



###### 38 

I struck them down so they could not get up; they fell beneath my feet. 



###### 39 

You have armed me with strength for the battle; you have subdued my enemies under my feet. 



###### 40 

You placed my foot on their necks. I have destroyed all who hated me. 



###### 41 

They called for help, but no one came to their rescue. They even cried to the LORD, but he refused to answer. 



###### 42 

I ground them as fine as dust in the wind. I swept them into the gutter like dirt. 



###### 43 

You gave me victory over my accusers. You appointed me ruler over nations; people I don't even know now serve me. 



###### 44 

As soon as they hear of me, they submit; foreign nations cringe before me. 



###### 45 

They all lose their courage and come trembling from their strongholds. 



###### 46 

The LORD lives! Praise to my Rock! May the God of my salvation be exalted! 



###### 47 

He is the God who pays back those who harm me; he subdues the nations under me 



###### 48 

and rescues me from my enemies. You hold me safe beyond the reach of my enemies; you save me from violent opponents. 



###### 49 

For this, O LORD, I will praise you among the nations; I will sing praises to your name. 



###### 50 

You give great victories to your king; you show unfailing love to your anointed, to David and all his descendants forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 18:5 Hebrew _Sheol._ [^b]: 18:10 Hebrew _a cherub._ [^c]: 18:12 Or _and lightning bolts;_ also in [18:13]. [^d]: 18:35 Hebrew _your humility;_ compare [2 Sam 22:36].
