---
Aliases: [Psalms 103]
previous: ['Ps 102']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 104']
---
# Psalms 103

***




###### 1 

Let all that I am praise the LORD; with my whole heart, I will praise his holy name. 



###### 2 

Let all that I am praise the LORD; may I never forget the good things he does for me. 



###### 3 

He forgives all my sins and heals all my diseases. 



###### 4 

He redeems me from death and crowns me with love and tender mercies. 



###### 5 

He fills my life with good things. My youth is renewed like the eagle's! 



###### 6 

The LORD gives righteousness and justice to all who are treated unfairly. 



###### 7 

He revealed his character to Moses and his deeds to the people of Israel. 



###### 8 

The LORD is compassionate and merciful, slow to get angry and filled with unfailing love. 



###### 9 

He will not constantly accuse us, nor remain angry forever. 



###### 10 

He does not punish us for all our sins; he does not deal harshly with us, as we deserve. 



###### 11 

For his unfailing love toward those who fear him is as great as the height of the heavens above the earth. 



###### 12 

He has removed our sins as far from us as the east is from the west. 



###### 13 

The LORD is like a father to his children, tender and compassionate to those who fear him. 



###### 14 

For he knows how weak we are; he remembers we are only dust. 



###### 15 

Our days on earth are like grass; like wildflowers, we bloom and die. 



###### 16 

The wind blows, and we are gone-- as though we had never been here. 



###### 17 

But the love of the LORD remains forever with those who fear him. His salvation extends to the children's children 



###### 18 

of those who are faithful to his covenant, of those who obey his commandments! 



###### 19 

The LORD has made the heavens his throne; from there he rules over everything. 



###### 20 

Praise the LORD, you angels, you mighty ones who carry out his plans, listening for each of his commands. 



###### 21 

Yes, praise the LORD, you armies of angels who serve him and do his will! 



###### 22 

Praise the LORD, everything he has created, everything in all his kingdom. Let all that I am praise the LORD. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
