---
Aliases: [Psalms 109]
previous: ['Ps 108']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 110']
---
# Psalms 109

***




###### 1 

O God, whom I praise, don't stand silent and aloof 



###### 2 

while the wicked slander me and tell lies about me. 



###### 3 

They surround me with hateful words and fight against me for no reason. 



###### 4 

I love them, but they try to destroy me with accusations even as I am praying for them! 



###### 5 

They repay evil for good, and hatred for my love. 



###### 6 

They say,[^a] "Get an evil person to turn against him. Send an accuser to bring him to trial. 



###### 7 

When his case comes up for judgment, let him be pronounced guilty. Count his prayers as sins. 



###### 8 

Let his years be few; let someone else take his position. 



###### 9 

May his children become fatherless, and his wife a widow. 



###### 10 

May his children wander as beggars and be driven from[^b] their ruined homes. 



###### 11 

May creditors seize his entire estate, and strangers take all he has earned. 



###### 12 

Let no one be kind to him; let no one pity his fatherless children. 



###### 13 

May all his offspring die. May his family name be blotted out in the next generation. 



###### 14 

May the LORD never forget the sins of his fathers; may his mother's sins never be erased from the record. 



###### 15 

May the LORD always remember these sins, and may his name disappear from human memory. 



###### 16 

For he refused all kindness to others; he persecuted the poor and needy, and he hounded the brokenhearted to death. 



###### 17 

He loved to curse others; now you curse him. He never blessed others; now don't you bless him. 



###### 18 

Cursing is as natural to him as his clothing, or the water he drinks, or the rich food he eats. 



###### 19 

Now may his curses return and cling to him like clothing; may they be tied around him like a belt." 



###### 20 

May those curses become the LORD's punishment for my accusers who speak evil of me. 



###### 21 

But deal well with me, O Sovereign LORD, for the sake of your own reputation! Rescue me because you are so faithful and good. 



###### 22 

For I am poor and needy, and my heart is full of pain. 



###### 23 

I am fading like a shadow at dusk; I am brushed off like a locust. 



###### 24 

My knees are weak from fasting, and I am skin and bones. 



###### 25 

I am a joke to people everywhere; when they see me, they shake their heads in scorn. 



###### 26 

Help me, O LORD my God! Save me because of your unfailing love. 



###### 27 

Let them see that this is your doing, that you yourself have done it, LORD. 



###### 28 

Then let them curse me if they like, but you will bless me! When they attack me, they will be disgraced! But I, your servant, will go right on rejoicing! 



###### 29 

May my accusers be clothed with disgrace; may their humiliation cover them like a cloak. 



###### 30 

But I will give repeated thanks to the LORD, praising him to everyone. 



###### 31 

For he stands beside the needy, ready to save them from those who condemn them. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 109:6 Hebrew lacks _They say._ [^b]: 109:10 As in Greek version; Hebrew reads _and seek._
