---
Aliases: [Psalms 115]
previous: ['Ps 114']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 116']
---
# Psalms 115

***




###### 1 

Not to us, O LORD, not to us, but to your name goes all the glory for your unfailing love and faithfulness. 



###### 2 

Why let the nations say, "Where is their God?" 



###### 3 

Our God is in the heavens, and he does as he wishes. 



###### 4 

Their idols are merely things of silver and gold, shaped by human hands. 



###### 5 

They have mouths but cannot speak, and eyes but cannot see. 



###### 6 

They have ears but cannot hear, and noses but cannot smell. 



###### 7 

They have hands but cannot feel, and feet but cannot walk, and throats but cannot make a sound. 



###### 8 

And those who make idols are just like them, as are all who trust in them. 



###### 9 

O Israel, trust the LORD! He is your helper and your shield. 



###### 10 

O priests, descendants of Aaron, trust the LORD! He is your helper and your shield. 



###### 11 

All you who fear the LORD, trust the LORD! He is your helper and your shield. 



###### 12 

The LORD remembers us and will bless us. He will bless the people of Israel and bless the priests, the descendants of Aaron. 



###### 13 

He will bless those who fear the LORD, both great and lowly. 



###### 14 

May the LORD richly bless both you and your children. 



###### 15 

May you be blessed by the LORD, who made heaven and earth. 



###### 16 

The heavens belong to the LORD, but he has given the earth to all humanity. 



###### 17 

The dead cannot sing praises to the LORD, for they have gone into the silence of the grave. 



###### 18 

But we can praise the LORD both now and forever! Praise the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
