---
Aliases: [Psalms 111]
previous: ['Ps 110']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 112']
---
# Psalms 111

***




###### 1 

Praise the LORD! I will thank the LORD with all my heart as I meet with his godly people. 



###### 2 

How amazing are the deeds of the LORD! All who delight in him should ponder them. 



###### 3 

Everything he does reveals his glory and majesty. His righteousness never fails. 



###### 4 

He causes us to remember his wonderful works. How gracious and merciful is our LORD! 



###### 5 

He gives food to those who fear him; he always remembers his covenant. 



###### 6 

He has shown his great power to his people by giving them the lands of other nations. 



###### 7 

All he does is just and good, and all his commandments are trustworthy. 



###### 8 

They are forever true, to be obeyed faithfully and with integrity. 



###### 9 

He has paid a full ransom for his people. He has guaranteed his covenant with them forever. What a holy, awe-inspiring name he has! 



###### 10 

Fear of the LORD is the foundation of true wisdom. All who obey his commandments will grow in wisdom. Praise him forever! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 111 This psalm is a Hebrew acrostic poem; after the introductory note of praise, each line begins with a successive letter of the Hebrew alphabet.
