---
Aliases: [Psalms 145]
previous: ['Ps 144']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 146']
---
# Psalms 145

***




###### 1 

I will exalt you, my God and King, and praise your name forever and ever. 



###### 2 

I will praise you every day; yes, I will praise you forever. 



###### 3 

Great is the LORD! He is most worthy of praise! No one can measure his greatness. 



###### 4 

Let each generation tell its children of your mighty acts; let them proclaim your power. 



###### 5 

I will meditate on your majestic, glorious splendor and your wonderful miracles. 



###### 6 

Your awe-inspiring deeds will be on every tongue; I will proclaim your greatness. 



###### 7 

Everyone will share the story of your wonderful goodness; they will sing with joy about your righteousness. 



###### 8 

The LORD is merciful and compassionate, slow to get angry and filled with unfailing love. 



###### 9 

The LORD is good to everyone. He showers compassion on all his creation. 



###### 10 

All of your works will thank you, LORD, and your faithful followers will praise you. 



###### 11 

They will speak of the glory of your kingdom; they will give examples of your power. 



###### 12 

They will tell about your mighty deeds and about the majesty and glory of your reign. 



###### 13 

For your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. You rule throughout all generations. The LORD always keeps his promises; he is gracious in all he does.[^b] 



###### 14 

The LORD helps the fallen and lifts those bent beneath their loads. 



###### 15 

The eyes of all look to you in hope; you give them their food as they need it. 



###### 16 

When you open your hand, you satisfy the hunger and thirst of every living thing. 



###### 17 

The LORD is righteous in everything he does; he is filled with kindness. 



###### 18 

The LORD is close to all who call on him, yes, to all who call on him in truth. 



###### 19 

He grants the desires of those who fear him; he hears their cries for help and rescues them. 



###### 20 

The LORD protects all those who love him, but he destroys the wicked. 



###### 21 

I will praise the LORD, and may everyone on earth bless his holy name forever and ever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 145 This psalm is a Hebrew acrostic poem; each verse (including 13b) begins with a successive letter of the Hebrew alphabet. [^b]: 145:13 As in Dead Sea Scrolls and Greek and Syriac versions; the Masoretic Text lacks the final two lines of this verse.
