---
Aliases: [Psalms 116]
previous: ['Ps 115']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 117']
---
# Psalms 116

***




###### 1 

I love the LORD because he hears my voice and my prayer for mercy. 



###### 2 

Because he bends down to listen, I will pray as long as I have breath! 



###### 3 

Death wrapped its ropes around me; the terrors of the grave[^a] overtook me. I saw only trouble and sorrow. 



###### 4 

Then I called on the name of the LORD: "Please, LORD, save me!" 



###### 5 

How kind the LORD is! How good he is! So merciful, this God of ours! 



###### 6 

The LORD protects those of childlike faith; I was facing death, and he saved me. 



###### 7 

Let my soul be at rest again, for the LORD has been good to me. 



###### 8 

He has saved me from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from stumbling. 



###### 9 

And so I walk in the LORD's presence as I live here on earth! 



###### 10 

I believed in you, so I said, "I am deeply troubled, LORD." 



###### 11 

In my anxiety I cried out to you, "These people are all liars!" 



###### 12 

What can I offer the LORD for all he has done for me? 



###### 13 

I will lift up the cup of salvation and praise the LORD's name for saving me. 



###### 14 

I will keep my promises to the LORD in the presence of all his people. 



###### 15 

The LORD cares deeply when his loved ones die. 



###### 16 

O LORD, I am your servant; yes, I am your servant, born into your household; you have freed me from my chains. 



###### 17 

I will offer you a sacrifice of thanksgiving and call on the name of the LORD. 



###### 18 

I will fulfill my vows to the LORD in the presence of all his people-- 



###### 19 

in the house of the LORD in the heart of Jerusalem. Praise the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 116:3 Hebrew _of Sheol._
