---
Aliases: [Psalms 146]
previous: ['Ps 145']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 147']
---
# Psalms 146

***




###### 1 

Praise the LORD! Let all that I am praise the LORD. 



###### 2 

I will praise the LORD as long as I live. I will sing praises to my God with my dying breath. 



###### 3 

Don't put your confidence in powerful people; there is no help for you there. 



###### 4 

When they breathe their last, they return to the earth, and all their plans die with them. 



###### 5 

But joyful are those who have the God of Israel[^a] as their helper, whose hope is in the LORD their God. 



###### 6 

He made heaven and earth, the sea, and everything in them. He keeps every promise forever. 



###### 7 

He gives justice to the oppressed and food to the hungry. The LORD frees the prisoners. 



###### 8 

The LORD opens the eyes of the blind. The LORD lifts up those who are weighed down. The LORD loves the godly. 



###### 9 

The LORD protects the foreigners among us. He cares for the orphans and widows, but he frustrates the plans of the wicked. 



###### 10 

The LORD will reign forever. He will be your God, O Jerusalem,[^b] throughout the generations. Praise the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 146:5 Hebrew _of Jacob._ See note on [44:4]. [^b]: 146:10 Hebrew _Zion._
