---
Aliases: [Psalms 143]
previous: ['Ps 142']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 144']
---
# Psalms 143

***




###### 1 

Hear my prayer, O LORD; listen to my plea! Answer me because you are faithful and righteous. 



###### 2 

Don't put your servant on trial, for no one is innocent before you. 



###### 3 

My enemy has chased me. He has knocked me to the ground and forces me to live in darkness like those in the grave. 



###### 4 

I am losing all hope; I am paralyzed with fear. 



###### 5 

I remember the days of old. I ponder all your great works and think about what you have done. 



###### 6 

I lift my hands to you in prayer. I thirst for you as parched land thirsts for rain. Interlude 



###### 7 

Come quickly, LORD, and answer me, for my depression deepens. Don't turn away from me, or I will die. 



###### 8 

Let me hear of your unfailing love each morning, for I am trusting you. Show me where to walk, for I give myself to you. 



###### 9 

Rescue me from my enemies, LORD; I run to you to hide me. 



###### 10 

Teach me to do your will, for you are my God. May your gracious Spirit lead me forward on a firm footing. 



###### 11 

For the glory of your name, O LORD, preserve my life. Because of your faithfulness, bring me out of this distress. 



###### 12 

In your unfailing love, silence all my enemies and destroy all my foes, for I am your servant. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
