---
Aliases: [Psalms 141]
previous: ['Ps 140']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 142']
---
# Psalms 141

***




###### 1 

O LORD, I am calling to you. Please hurry! Listen when I cry to you for help! 



###### 2 

Accept my prayer as incense offered to you, and my upraised hands as an evening offering. 



###### 3 

Take control of what I say, O LORD, and guard my lips. 



###### 4 

Don't let me drift toward evil or take part in acts of wickedness. Don't let me share in the delicacies of those who do wrong. 



###### 5 

Let the godly strike me! It will be a kindness! If they correct me, it is soothing medicine. Don't let me refuse it. But I pray constantly against the wicked and their deeds. 



###### 6 

When their leaders are thrown down from a cliff, the wicked will listen to my words and find them true. 



###### 7 

Like rocks brought up by a plow, the bones of the wicked will lie scattered without burial.[^a] 



###### 8 

I look to you for help, O Sovereign LORD. You are my refuge; don't let them kill me. 



###### 9 

Keep me from the traps they have set for me, from the snares of those who do wrong. 



###### 10 

Let the wicked fall into their own nets, but let me escape. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 141:7 Hebrew _our bones will be scattered at the mouth of Sheol._
