---
Aliases: [Psalms 110]
previous: ['Ps 109']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 111']
---
# Psalms 110

***




###### 1 

The LORD said to my Lord,[^a] "Sit in the place of honor at my right hand until I humble your enemies, making them a footstool under your feet." 



###### 2 

The LORD will extend your powerful kingdom from Jerusalem[^b]; you will rule over your enemies. 



###### 3 

When you go to war, your people will serve you willingly. You are arrayed in holy garments, and your strength will be renewed each day like the morning dew. 



###### 4 

The LORD has taken an oath and will not break his vow: "You are a priest forever in the order of Melchizedek." 



###### 5 

The Lord stands at your right hand to protect you. He will strike down many kings when his anger erupts. 



###### 6 

He will punish the nations and fill their lands with corpses; he will shatter heads over the whole earth. 



###### 7 

But he himself will be refreshed from brooks along the way. He will be victorious. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 110:1 Or _my lord._ [^b]: 110:2 Hebrew _Zion._
