---
Aliases: [Psalms 147]
previous: ['Ps 146']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 148']
---
# Psalms 147

***




###### 1 

Praise the LORD! How good to sing praises to our God! How delightful and how fitting! 



###### 2 

The LORD is rebuilding Jerusalem and bringing the exiles back to Israel. 



###### 3 

He heals the brokenhearted and bandages their wounds. 



###### 4 

He counts the stars and calls them all by name. 



###### 5 

How great is our Lord! His power is absolute! His understanding is beyond comprehension! 



###### 6 

The LORD supports the humble, but he brings the wicked down into the dust. 



###### 7 

Sing out your thanks to the LORD; sing praises to our God with a harp. 



###### 8 

He covers the heavens with clouds, provides rain for the earth, and makes the grass grow in mountain pastures. 



###### 9 

He gives food to the wild animals and feeds the young ravens when they cry. 



###### 10 

He takes no pleasure in the strength of a horse or in human might. 



###### 11 

No, the LORD's delight is in those who fear him, those who put their hope in his unfailing love. 



###### 12 

Glorify the LORD, O Jerusalem! Praise your God, O Zion! 



###### 13 

For he has strengthened the bars of your gates and blessed your children within your walls. 



###### 14 

He sends peace across your nation and satisfies your hunger with the finest wheat. 



###### 15 

He sends his orders to the world-- how swiftly his word flies! 



###### 16 

He sends the snow like white wool; he scatters frost upon the ground like ashes. 



###### 17 

He hurls the hail like stones.[^a] Who can stand against his freezing cold? 



###### 18 

Then, at his command, it all melts. He sends his winds, and the ice thaws. 



###### 19 

He has revealed his words to Jacob, his decrees and regulations to Israel. 



###### 20 

He has not done this for any other nation; they do not know his regulations. Praise the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 147:17 Hebrew _like bread crumbs._
