---
Aliases: [Psalms 101]
previous: ['Ps 100']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 102']
---
# Psalms 101

***




###### 1 

I will sing of your love and justice, LORD. I will praise you with songs. 



###### 2 

I will be careful to live a blameless life-- when will you come to help me? I will lead a life of integrity in my own home. 



###### 3 

I will refuse to look at anything vile and vulgar. I hate all who deal crookedly; I will have nothing to do with them. 



###### 4 

I will reject perverse ideas and stay away from every evil. 



###### 5 

I will not tolerate people who slander their neighbors. I will not endure conceit and pride. 



###### 6 

I will search for faithful people to be my companions. Only those who are above reproach will be allowed to serve me. 



###### 7 

I will not allow deceivers to serve in my house, and liars will not stay in my presence. 



###### 8 

My daily task will be to ferret out the wicked and free the city of the LORD from their grip. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
