---
Aliases: [Psalms 105]
previous: ['Ps 104']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 106']
---
# Psalms 105

***




###### 1 

Give thanks to the LORD and proclaim his greatness. Let the whole world know what he has done. 



###### 2 

Sing to him; yes, sing his praises. Tell everyone about his wonderful deeds. 



###### 3 

Exult in his holy name; rejoice, you who worship the LORD. 



###### 4 

Search for the LORD and for his strength; continually seek him. 



###### 5 

Remember the wonders he has performed, his miracles, and the rulings he has given, 



###### 6 

you children of his servant Abraham, you descendants of Jacob, his chosen ones. 



###### 7 

He is the LORD our God. His justice is seen throughout the land. 



###### 8 

He always stands by his covenant-- the commitment he made to a thousand generations. 



###### 9 

This is the covenant he made with Abraham and the oath he swore to Isaac. 



###### 10 

He confirmed it to Jacob as a decree, and to the people of Israel as a never-ending covenant: 



###### 11 

"I will give you the land of Canaan as your special possession." 



###### 12 

He said this when they were few in number, a tiny group of strangers in Canaan. 



###### 13 

They wandered from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another. 



###### 14 

Yet he did not let anyone oppress them. He warned kings on their behalf: 



###### 15 

"Do not touch my chosen people, and do not hurt my prophets." 



###### 16 

He called for a famine on the land of Canaan, cutting off its food supply. 



###### 17 

Then he sent someone to Egypt ahead of them-- Joseph, who was sold as a slave. 



###### 18 

They bruised his feet with fetters and placed his neck in an iron collar. 



###### 19 

Until the time came to fulfill his dreams,[^a] the LORD tested Joseph's character. 



###### 20 

Then Pharaoh sent for him and set him free; the ruler of the nation opened his prison door. 



###### 21 

Joseph was put in charge of all the king's household; he became ruler over all the king's possessions. 



###### 22 

He could instruct[^b] the king's aides as he pleased and teach the king's advisers. 



###### 23 

Then Israel arrived in Egypt; Jacob lived as a foreigner in the land of Ham. 



###### 24 

And the LORD multiplied the people of Israel until they became too mighty for their enemies. 



###### 25 

Then he turned the Egyptians against the Israelites, and they plotted against the LORD's servants. 



###### 26 

But the LORD sent his servant Moses, along with Aaron, whom he had chosen. 



###### 27 

They performed miraculous signs among the Egyptians, and wonders in the land of Ham. 



###### 28 

The LORD blanketed Egypt in darkness, for they had defied[^c] his commands to let his people go. 



###### 29 

He turned their water into blood, poisoning all the fish. 



###### 30 

Then frogs overran the land and even invaded the king's bedrooms. 



###### 31 

When the LORD spoke, flies descended on the Egyptians, and gnats swarmed across Egypt. 



###### 32 

He sent them hail instead of rain, and lightning flashed over the land. 



###### 33 

He ruined their grapevines and fig trees and shattered all the trees. 



###### 34 

He spoke, and hordes of locusts came-- young locusts beyond number. 



###### 35 

They ate up everything green in the land, destroying all the crops in their fields. 



###### 36 

Then he killed the oldest son in each Egyptian home, the pride and joy of each family. 



###### 37 

The LORD brought his people out of Egypt, loaded with silver and gold; and not one among the tribes of Israel even stumbled. 



###### 38 

Egypt was glad when they were gone, for they feared them greatly. 



###### 39 

The LORD spread a cloud above them as a covering and gave them a great fire to light the darkness. 



###### 40 

They asked for meat, and he sent them quail; he satisfied their hunger with manna--bread from heaven. 



###### 41 

He split open a rock, and water gushed out to form a river through the dry wasteland. 



###### 42 

For he remembered his sacred promise to his servant Abraham. 



###### 43 

So he brought his people out of Egypt with joy, his chosen ones with rejoicing. 



###### 44 

He gave his people the lands of pagan nations, and they harvested crops that others had planted. 



###### 45 

All this happened so they would follow his decrees and obey his instructions. Praise the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 105:19 Hebrew _his word._ [^b]: 105:22 As in Greek and Syriac versions; Hebrew reads _bind_ or _imprison._ [^c]: 105:28 As in Greek and Syriac versions; Hebrew reads _had not defied._
