---
Aliases: [Psalms 140]
previous: ['Ps 139']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 141']
---
# Psalms 140

***




###### 1 

O LORD, rescue me from evil people. Protect me from those who are violent, 



###### 2 

those who plot evil in their hearts and stir up trouble all day long. 



###### 3 

Their tongues sting like a snake; the venom of a viper drips from their lips. Interlude 



###### 4 

O LORD, keep me out of the hands of the wicked. Protect me from those who are violent, for they are plotting against me. 



###### 5 

The proud have set a trap to catch me; they have stretched out a net; they have placed traps all along the way. Interlude 



###### 6 

I said to the LORD, "You are my God!" Listen, O LORD, to my cries for mercy! 



###### 7 

O Sovereign LORD, the strong one who rescued me, you protected me on the day of battle. 



###### 8 

LORD, do not let evil people have their way. Do not let their evil schemes succeed, or they will become proud. Interlude 



###### 9 

Let my enemies be destroyed by the very evil they have planned for me. 



###### 10 

Let burning coals fall down on their heads. Let them be thrown into the fire or into watery pits from which they can't escape. 



###### 11 

Don't let liars prosper here in our land. Cause great disasters to fall on the violent. 



###### 12 

But I know the LORD will help those they persecute; he will give justice to the poor. 



###### 13 

Surely righteous people are praising your name; the godly will live in your presence. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
