---
Aliases: [Psalms 112]
previous: ['Ps 111']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 113']
---
# Psalms 112

***




###### 1 

Praise the LORD! How joyful are those who fear the LORD and delight in obeying his commands. 



###### 2 

Their children will be successful everywhere; an entire generation of godly people will be blessed. 



###### 3 

They themselves will be wealthy, and their good deeds will last forever. 



###### 4 

Light shines in the darkness for the godly. They are generous, compassionate, and righteous. 



###### 5 

Good comes to those who lend money generously and conduct their business fairly. 



###### 6 

Such people will not be overcome by evil. Those who are righteous will be long remembered. 



###### 7 

They do not fear bad news; they confidently trust the LORD to care for them. 



###### 8 

They are confident and fearless and can face their foes triumphantly. 



###### 9 

They share freely and give generously to those in need. Their good deeds will be remembered forever. They will have influence and honor. 



###### 10 

The wicked will see this and be infuriated. They will grind their teeth in anger; they will slink away, their hopes thwarted. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 112 This psalm is a Hebrew acrostic poem; after the introductory note of praise, each line begins with a successive letter of the Hebrew alphabet.
