---
Aliases: [Psalms 14]
previous: ['Ps 13']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 15']
---
# Psalms 14

***




###### 1 

Only fools say in their hearts, "There is no God." They are corrupt, and their actions are evil; not one of them does good! 



###### 2 

The LORD looks down from heaven on the entire human race; he looks to see if anyone is truly wise, if anyone seeks God. 



###### 3 

But no, all have turned away; all have become corrupt.[^a] No one does good, not a single one! 



###### 4 

Will those who do evil never learn? They eat up my people like bread and wouldn't think of praying to the LORD. 



###### 5 

Terror will grip them, for God is with those who obey him. 



###### 6 

The wicked frustrate the plans of the oppressed, but the LORD will protect his people. 



###### 7 

Who will come from Mount Zion to rescue Israel? When the LORD restores his people, Jacob will shout with joy, and Israel will rejoice. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 14:3 Greek version reads _have become useless._ Compare [Rom 3:12].
