---
Aliases: [Psalms 136]
previous: ['Ps 135']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 137']
---
# Psalms 136

***




###### 1 

Give thanks to the LORD, for he is good! _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 2 

Give thanks to the God of gods. _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 3 

Give thanks to the Lord of lords. _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 4 

Give thanks to him who alone does mighty miracles. _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 5 

Give thanks to him who made the heavens so skillfully. _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 6 

Give thanks to him who placed the earth among the waters. _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 7 

Give thanks to him who made the heavenly lights-- _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 8 

the sun to rule the day, _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 9 

and the moon and stars to rule the night. _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 10 

Give thanks to him who killed the firstborn of Egypt. _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 11 

He brought Israel out of Egypt. _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 12 

He acted with a strong hand and powerful arm. _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 13 

Give thanks to him who parted the Red Sea.[^a] _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 14 

He led Israel safely through, _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 15 

but he hurled Pharaoh and his army into the Red Sea. _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 16 

Give thanks to him who led his people through the wilderness. _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 17 

Give thanks to him who struck down mighty kings. _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 18 

He killed powerful kings-- _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 19 

Sihon king of the Amorites, _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 20 

and Og king of Bashan. _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 21 

God gave the land of these kings as an inheritance-- _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 22 

a special possession to his servant Israel. _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 23 

He remembered us in our weakness. _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 24 

He saved us from our enemies. _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 25 

He gives food to every living thing. _His faithful love endures forever._ 



###### 26 

Give thanks to the God of heaven. _His faithful love endures forever._ ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 136:13 Hebrew _sea of reeds;_ also in [136:15].
