---
Aliases: [Psalms 118]
previous: ['Ps 117']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 119']
---
# Psalms 118

***




###### 1 

Give thanks to the LORD, for he is good! His faithful love endures forever. 



###### 2 

Let all Israel repeat: "His faithful love endures forever." 



###### 3 

Let Aaron's descendants, the priests, repeat: "His faithful love endures forever." 



###### 4 

Let all who fear the LORD repeat: "His faithful love endures forever." 



###### 5 

In my distress I prayed to the LORD, and the LORD answered me and set me free. 



###### 6 

The LORD is for me, so I will have no fear. What can mere people do to me? 



###### 7 

Yes, the LORD is for me; he will help me. I will look in triumph at those who hate me. 



###### 8 

It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to trust in people. 



###### 9 

It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to trust in princes. 



###### 10 

Though hostile nations surrounded me, I destroyed them all with the authority of the LORD. 



###### 11 

Yes, they surrounded and attacked me, but I destroyed them all with the authority of the LORD. 



###### 12 

They swarmed around me like bees; they blazed against me like a crackling fire. But I destroyed them all with the authority of the LORD. 



###### 13 

My enemies did their best to kill me, but the LORD rescued me. 



###### 14 

The LORD is my strength and my song; he has given me victory. 



###### 15 

Songs of joy and victory are sung in the camp of the godly. The strong right arm of the LORD has done glorious things! 



###### 16 

The strong right arm of the LORD is raised in triumph. The strong right arm of the LORD has done glorious things! 



###### 17 

I will not die; instead, I will live to tell what the LORD has done. 



###### 18 

The LORD has punished me severely, but he did not let me die. 



###### 19 

Open for me the gates where the righteous enter, and I will go in and thank the LORD. 



###### 20 

These gates lead to the presence of the LORD, and the godly enter there. 



###### 21 

I thank you for answering my prayer and giving me victory! 



###### 22 

The stone that the builders rejected has now become the cornerstone. 



###### 23 

This is the LORD's doing, and it is wonderful to see. 



###### 24 

This is the day the LORD has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. 



###### 25 

Please, LORD, please save us. Please, LORD, please give us success. 



###### 26 

Bless the one who comes in the name of the LORD. We bless you from the house of the LORD. 



###### 27 

The LORD is God, shining upon us. Take the sacrifice and bind it with cords on the altar. 



###### 28 

You are my God, and I will praise you! You are my God, and I will exalt you! 



###### 29 

Give thanks to the LORD, for he is good! His faithful love endures forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
