---
Aliases: [Psalms 135]
previous: ['Ps 134']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 136']
---
# Psalms 135

***




###### 1 

Praise the LORD! Praise the name of the LORD! Praise him, you who serve the LORD, 



###### 2 

you who serve in the house of the LORD, in the courts of the house of our God. 



###### 3 

Praise the LORD, for the LORD is good; celebrate his lovely name with music. 



###### 4 

For the LORD has chosen Jacob for himself, Israel for his own special treasure. 



###### 5 

I know the greatness of the LORD-- that our Lord is greater than any other god. 



###### 6 

The LORD does whatever pleases him throughout all heaven and earth, and on the seas and in their depths. 



###### 7 

He causes the clouds to rise over the whole earth. He sends the lightning with the rain and releases the wind from his storehouses. 



###### 8 

He destroyed the firstborn in each Egyptian home, both people and animals. 



###### 9 

He performed miraculous signs and wonders in Egypt against Pharaoh and all his people. 



###### 10 

He struck down great nations and slaughtered mighty kings-- 



###### 11 

Sihon king of the Amorites, Og king of Bashan, and all the kings of Canaan. 



###### 12 

He gave their land as an inheritance, a special possession to his people Israel. 



###### 13 

Your name, O LORD, endures forever; your fame, O LORD, is known to every generation. 



###### 14 

For the LORD will give justice to his people and have compassion on his servants. 



###### 15 

The idols of the nations are merely things of silver and gold, shaped by human hands. 



###### 16 

They have mouths but cannot speak, and eyes but cannot see. 



###### 17 

They have ears but cannot hear, and mouths but cannot breathe. 



###### 18 

And those who make idols are just like them, as are all who trust in them. 



###### 19 

O Israel, praise the LORD! O priests--descendants of Aaron--praise the LORD! 



###### 20 

O Levites, praise the LORD! All you who fear the LORD, praise the LORD! 



###### 21 

The LORD be praised from Zion, for he lives here in Jerusalem. Praise the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
