---
Aliases: [Psalms 12]
previous: ['Ps 11']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 13']
---
# Psalms 12

***




###### 1 

Help, O LORD, for the godly are fast disappearing! The faithful have vanished from the earth! 



###### 2 

Neighbors lie to each other, speaking with flattering lips and deceitful hearts. 



###### 3 

May the LORD cut off their flattering lips and silence their boastful tongues. 



###### 4 

They say, "We will lie to our hearts' content. Our lips are our own--who can stop us?" 



###### 5 

The LORD replies, "I have seen violence done to the helpless, and I have heard the groans of the poor. Now I will rise up to rescue them, as they have longed for me to do." 



###### 6 

The LORD's promises are pure, like silver refined in a furnace, purified seven times over. 



###### 7 

Therefore, LORD, we know you will protect the oppressed, preserving them forever from this lying generation, 



###### 8 

even though the wicked strut about, and evil is praised throughout the land. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 12:Title Hebrew _according to the sheminith._
