---
Aliases: [Psalms 137]
previous: ['Ps 136']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 138']
---
# Psalms 137

***




###### 1 

Beside the rivers of Babylon, we sat and wept as we thought of Jerusalem.[^a] 



###### 2 

We put away our harps, hanging them on the branches of poplar trees. 



###### 3 

For our captors demanded a song from us. Our tormentors insisted on a joyful hymn: "Sing us one of those songs of Jerusalem!" 



###### 4 

But how can we sing the songs of the LORD while in a pagan land? 



###### 5 

If I forget you, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget how to play the harp. 



###### 6 

May my tongue stick to the roof of my mouth if I fail to remember you, if I don't make Jerusalem my greatest joy. 



###### 7 

O LORD, remember what the Edomites did on the day the armies of Babylon captured Jerusalem. "Destroy it!" they yelled. "Level it to the ground!" 



###### 8 

O Babylon, you will be destroyed. Happy is the one who pays you back for what you have done to us. 



###### 9 

Happy is the one who takes your babies and smashes them against the rocks! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 137:1 Hebrew _Zion;_ also in [137:3].
