---
Aliases: [Psalms 16]
previous: ['Ps 15']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 17']
---
# Psalms 16

***




###### 1 

Keep me safe, O God, for I have come to you for refuge. 



###### 2 

I said to the LORD, "You are my Master! Every good thing I have comes from you." 



###### 3 

The godly people in the land are my true heroes! I take pleasure in them! 



###### 4 

Troubles multiply for those who chase after other gods. I will not take part in their sacrifices of blood or even speak the names of their gods. 



###### 5 

LORD, you alone are my inheritance, my cup of blessing. You guard all that is mine. 



###### 6 

The land you have given me is a pleasant land. What a wonderful inheritance! 



###### 7 

I will bless the LORD who guides me; even at night my heart instructs me. 



###### 8 

I know the LORD is always with me. I will not be shaken, for he is right beside me. 



###### 9 

No wonder my heart is glad, and I rejoice.[^b] My body rests in safety. 



###### 10 

For you will not leave my soul among the dead[^c] or allow your holy one[^d] to rot in the grave. 



###### 11 

You will show me the way of life, granting me the joy of your presence and the pleasures of living with you forever.[^e] ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 16:Title Hebrew _miktam._ This may be a literary or musical term. [^b]: 16:9 Greek version reads _and my tongue shouts his praises._ Compare [Acts 2:26]. [^c]: 16:10a Hebrew _in Sheol._ [^d]: 16:10b Or _your Holy One._ [^e]: 16:11 Greek version reads _You have shown me the way of life, / and you will fill me with the joy of your presence._ Compare [Acts 2:28].
