---
Aliases: [Psalms 108]
previous: ['Ps 107']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 109']
---
# Psalms 108

***




###### 1 

My heart is confident in you, O God; no wonder I can sing your praises with all my heart! 



###### 2 

Wake up, lyre and harp! I will wake the dawn with my song. 



###### 3 

I will thank you, LORD, among all the people. I will sing your praises among the nations. 



###### 4 

For your unfailing love is higher than the heavens. Your faithfulness reaches to the clouds. 



###### 5 

Be exalted, O God, above the highest heavens. May your glory shine over all the earth. 



###### 6 

Now rescue your beloved people. Answer and save us by your power. 



###### 7 

God has promised this by his holiness[^a]: "I will divide up Shechem with joy. I will measure out the valley of Succoth. 



###### 8 

Gilead is mine, and Manasseh, too. Ephraim, my helmet, will produce my warriors, and Judah, my scepter, will produce my kings. 



###### 9 

But Moab, my washbasin, will become my servant, and I will wipe my feet on Edom and shout in triumph over Philistia." 



###### 10 

Who will bring me into the fortified city? Who will bring me victory over Edom? 



###### 11 

Have you rejected us, O God? Will you no longer march with our armies? 



###### 12 

Oh, please help us against our enemies, for all human help is useless. 



###### 13 

With God's help we will do mighty things, for he will trample down our foes. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 108:7 Or _in his sanctuary._
