---
Aliases: [Psalms 132]
previous: ['Ps 131']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 133']
---
# Psalms 132

***




###### 1 

LORD, remember David and all that he suffered. 



###### 2 

He made a solemn promise to the LORD. He vowed to the Mighty One of Israel,[^a] 



###### 3 

"I will not go home; I will not let myself rest. 



###### 4 

I will not let my eyes sleep nor close my eyelids in slumber 



###### 5 

until I find a place to build a house for the LORD, a sanctuary for the Mighty One of Israel." 



###### 6 

We heard that the Ark was in Ephrathah; then we found it in the distant countryside of Jaar. 



###### 7 

Let us go to the sanctuary of the LORD; let us worship at the footstool of his throne. 



###### 8 

Arise, O LORD, and enter your resting place, along with the Ark, the symbol of your power. 



###### 9 

May your priests be clothed in godliness; may your loyal servants sing for joy. 



###### 10 

For the sake of your servant David, do not reject the king you have anointed. 



###### 11 

The LORD swore an oath to David with a promise he will never take back: "I will place one of your descendants on your throne. 



###### 12 

If your descendants obey the terms of my covenant and the laws that I teach them, then your royal line will continue forever and ever." 



###### 13 

For the LORD has chosen Jerusalem[^b]; he has desired it for his home. 



###### 14 

"This is my resting place forever," he said. "I will live here, for this is the home I desired. 



###### 15 

I will bless this city and make it prosperous; I will satisfy its poor with food. 



###### 16 

I will clothe its priests with godliness; its faithful servants will sing for joy. 



###### 17 

Here I will increase the power of David; my anointed one will be a light for my people. 



###### 18 

I will clothe his enemies with shame, but he will be a glorious king." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 132:2 Hebrew _of Jacob;_ also in [132:5]. See note on [44:4]. [^b]: 132:13 Hebrew _Zion._
