---
Aliases: [Psalms 19]
previous: ['Ps 18']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 20']
---
# Psalms 19

***




###### 1 

The heavens proclaim the glory of God. The skies display his craftsmanship. 



###### 2 

Day after day they continue to speak; night after night they make him known. 



###### 3 

They speak without a sound or word; their voice is never heard.[^a] 



###### 4 

Yet their message has gone throughout the earth, and their words to all the world. God has made a home in the heavens for the sun. 



###### 5 

It bursts forth like a radiant bridegroom after his wedding. It rejoices like a great athlete eager to run the race. 



###### 6 

The sun rises at one end of the heavens and follows its course to the other end. Nothing can hide from its heat. 



###### 7 

The instructions of the LORD are perfect, reviving the soul. The decrees of the LORD are trustworthy, making wise the simple. 



###### 8 

The commandments of the LORD are right, bringing joy to the heart. The commands of the LORD are clear, giving insight for living. 



###### 9 

Reverence for the LORD is pure, lasting forever. The laws of the LORD are true; each one is fair. 



###### 10 

They are more desirable than gold, even the finest gold. They are sweeter than honey, even honey dripping from the comb. 



###### 11 

They are a warning to your servant, a great reward for those who obey them. 



###### 12 

How can I know all the sins lurking in my heart? Cleanse me from these hidden faults. 



###### 13 

Keep your servant from deliberate sins! Don't let them control me. Then I will be free of guilt and innocent of great sin. 



###### 14 

May the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be pleasing to you, O LORD, my rock and my redeemer. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 19:3 Or _There is no speech or language where their voice is not heard._
