---
Aliases: [Psalms 138]
previous: ['Ps 137']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 139']
---
# Psalms 138

***




###### 1 

I give you thanks, O LORD, with all my heart; I will sing your praises before the gods. 



###### 2 

I bow before your holy Temple as I worship. I praise your name for your unfailing love and faithfulness; for your promises are backed by all the honor of your name. 



###### 3 

As soon as I pray, you answer me; you encourage me by giving me strength. 



###### 4 

Every king in all the earth will thank you, LORD, for all of them will hear your words. 



###### 5 

Yes, they will sing about the LORD's ways, for the glory of the LORD is very great. 



###### 6 

Though the LORD is great, he cares for the humble, but he keeps his distance from the proud. 



###### 7 

Though I am surrounded by troubles, you will protect me from the anger of my enemies. You reach out your hand, and the power of your right hand saves me. 



###### 8 

The LORD will work out his plans for my life-- for your faithful love, O LORD, endures forever. Don't abandon me, for you made me. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
