---
Aliases: [Psalms 10]
previous: ['Ps 9']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 11']
---
# Psalms 10

***




###### 1 

O LORD, why do you stand so far away? Why do you hide when I am in trouble? 



###### 2 

The wicked arrogantly hunt down the poor. Let them be caught in the evil they plan for others. 



###### 3 

For they brag about their evil desires; they praise the greedy and curse the LORD. 



###### 4 

The wicked are too proud to seek God. They seem to think that God is dead. 



###### 5 

Yet they succeed in everything they do. They do not see your punishment awaiting them. They sneer at all their enemies. 



###### 6 

They think, "Nothing bad will ever happen to us! We will be free of trouble forever!" 



###### 7 

Their mouths are full of cursing, lies, and threats.[^a] Trouble and evil are on the tips of their tongues. 



###### 8 

They lurk in ambush in the villages, waiting to murder innocent people. They are always searching for helpless victims. 



###### 9 

Like lions crouched in hiding, they wait to pounce on the helpless. Like hunters they capture the helpless and drag them away in nets. 



###### 10 

Their helpless victims are crushed; they fall beneath the strength of the wicked. 



###### 11 

The wicked think, "God isn't watching us! He has closed his eyes and won't even see what we do!" 



###### 12 

Arise, O LORD! Punish the wicked, O God! Do not ignore the helpless! 



###### 13 

Why do the wicked get away with despising God? They think, "God will never call us to account." 



###### 14 

But you see the trouble and grief they cause. You take note of it and punish them. The helpless put their trust in you. You defend the orphans. 



###### 15 

Break the arms of these wicked, evil people! Go after them until the last one is destroyed. 



###### 16 

The LORD is king forever and ever! The godless nations will vanish from the land. 



###### 17 

LORD, you know the hopes of the helpless. Surely you will hear their cries and comfort them. 



###### 18 

You will bring justice to the orphans and the oppressed, so mere people can no longer terrify them. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 10:7 Greek version reads _cursing and bitterness._ Compare [Rom 3:14].
