---
Aliases: [Psalms 144]
previous: ['Ps 143']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 145']
---
# Psalms 144

***




###### 1 

Praise the LORD, who is my rock. He trains my hands for war and gives my fingers skill for battle. 



###### 2 

He is my loving ally and my fortress, my tower of safety, my rescuer. He is my shield, and I take refuge in him. He makes the nations[^a] submit to me. 



###### 3 

O LORD, what are human beings that you should notice them, mere mortals that you should think about them? 



###### 4 

For they are like a breath of air; their days are like a passing shadow. 



###### 5 

Open the heavens, LORD, and come down. Touch the mountains so they billow smoke. 



###### 6 

Hurl your lightning bolts and scatter your enemies! Shoot your arrows and confuse them! 



###### 7 

Reach down from heaven and rescue me; rescue me from deep waters, from the power of my enemies. 



###### 8 

Their mouths are full of lies; they swear to tell the truth, but they lie instead. 



###### 9 

I will sing a new song to you, O God! I will sing your praises with a ten-stringed harp. 



###### 10 

For you grant victory to kings! You rescued your servant David from the fatal sword. 



###### 11 

Save me! Rescue me from the power of my enemies. Their mouths are full of lies; they swear to tell the truth, but they lie instead. 



###### 12 

May our sons flourish in their youth like well-nurtured plants. May our daughters be like graceful pillars, carved to beautify a palace. 



###### 13 

May our barns be filled with crops of every kind. May the flocks in our fields multiply by the thousands, even tens of thousands, 



###### 14 

and may our oxen be loaded down with produce. May there be no enemy breaking through our walls, no going into captivity, no cries of alarm in our town squares. 



###### 15 

Yes, joyful are those who live like this! Joyful indeed are those whose God is the LORD. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 144:2 Some manuscripts read _my people._
