---
Aliases: [Psalms 148]
previous: ['Ps 147']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 149']
---
# Psalms 148

***




###### 1 

Praise the LORD! Praise the LORD from the heavens! Praise him from the skies! 



###### 2 

Praise him, all his angels! Praise him, all the armies of heaven! 



###### 3 

Praise him, sun and moon! Praise him, all you twinkling stars! 



###### 4 

Praise him, skies above! Praise him, vapors high above the clouds! 



###### 5 

Let every created thing give praise to the LORD, for he issued his command, and they came into being. 



###### 6 

He set them in place forever and ever. His decree will never be revoked. 



###### 7 

Praise the LORD from the earth, you creatures of the ocean depths, 



###### 8 

fire and hail, snow and clouds,[^a] wind and weather that obey him, 



###### 9 

mountains and all hills, fruit trees and all cedars, 



###### 10 

wild animals and all livestock, small scurrying animals and birds, 



###### 11 

kings of the earth and all people, rulers and judges of the earth, 



###### 12 

young men and young women, old men and children. 



###### 13 

Let them all praise the name of the LORD. For his name is very great; his glory towers over the earth and heaven! 



###### 14 

He has made his people strong, honoring his faithful ones-- the people of Israel who are close to him. Praise the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 148:8 Or _mist,_ or _smoke._
