---
Aliases: [Psalms 29]
previous: ['Ps 28']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 30']
---
# Psalms 29

***




###### 1 

Honor the LORD, you heavenly beings[^a]; honor the LORD for his glory and strength. 



###### 2 

Honor the LORD for the glory of his name. Worship the LORD in the splendor of his holiness. 



###### 3 

The voice of the LORD echoes above the sea. The God of glory thunders. The LORD thunders over the mighty sea. 



###### 4 

The voice of the LORD is powerful; the voice of the LORD is majestic. 



###### 5 

The voice of the LORD splits the mighty cedars; the LORD shatters the cedars of Lebanon. 



###### 6 

He makes Lebanon's mountains skip like a calf; he makes Mount Hermon[^b] leap like a young wild ox. 



###### 7 

The voice of the LORD strikes with bolts of lightning. 



###### 8 

The voice of the LORD makes the barren wilderness quake; the LORD shakes the wilderness of Kadesh. 



###### 9 

The voice of the LORD twists mighty oaks[^c] and strips the forests bare. In his Temple everyone shouts, "Glory!" 



###### 10 

The LORD rules over the floodwaters. The LORD reigns as king forever. 



###### 11 

The LORD gives his people strength. The LORD blesses them with peace. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 29:1 Hebrew _you sons of God._ [^b]: 29:6 Hebrew _Sirion,_ another name for Mount Hermon. [^c]: 29:9 Or _causes the deer to writhe in labor._
