---
Aliases: [Psalms 25]
previous: ['Ps 24']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 26']
---
# Psalms 25

***




###### 1 

O LORD, I give my life to you. 



###### 2 

I trust in you, my God! Do not let me be disgraced, or let my enemies rejoice in my defeat. 



###### 3 

No one who trusts in you will ever be disgraced, but disgrace comes to those who try to deceive others. 



###### 4 

Show me the right path, O LORD; point out the road for me to follow. 



###### 5 

Lead me by your truth and teach me, for you are the God who saves me. All day long I put my hope in you. 



###### 6 

Remember, O LORD, your compassion and unfailing love, which you have shown from long ages past. 



###### 7 

Do not remember the rebellious sins of my youth. Remember me in the light of your unfailing love, for you are merciful, O LORD. 



###### 8 

The LORD is good and does what is right; he shows the proper path to those who go astray. 



###### 9 

He leads the humble in doing right, teaching them his way. 



###### 10 

The LORD leads with unfailing love and faithfulness all who keep his covenant and obey his demands. 



###### 11 

For the honor of your name, O LORD, forgive my many, many sins. 



###### 12 

Who are those who fear the LORD? He will show them the path they should choose. 



###### 13 

They will live in prosperity, and their children will inherit the land. 



###### 14 

The LORD is a friend to those who fear him. He teaches them his covenant. 



###### 15 

My eyes are always on the LORD, for he rescues me from the traps of my enemies. 



###### 16 

Turn to me and have mercy, for I am alone and in deep distress. 



###### 17 

My problems go from bad to worse. Oh, save me from them all! 



###### 18 

Feel my pain and see my trouble. Forgive all my sins. 



###### 19 

See how many enemies I have and how viciously they hate me! 



###### 20 

Protect me! Rescue my life from them! Do not let me be disgraced, for in you I take refuge. 



###### 21 

May integrity and honesty protect me, for I put my hope in you. 



###### 22 

O God, ransom Israel from all its troubles. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 25 This psalm is a Hebrew acrostic poem; each verse begins with a successive letter of the Hebrew alphabet.
