---
Aliases: [Psalms 24]
previous: ['Ps 23']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 25']
---
# Psalms 24

***




###### 1 

The earth is the LORD's, and everything in it. The world and all its people belong to him. 



###### 2 

For he laid the earth's foundation on the seas and built it on the ocean depths. 



###### 3 

Who may climb the mountain of the LORD? Who may stand in his holy place? 



###### 4 

Only those whose hands and hearts are pure, who do not worship idols and never tell lies. 



###### 5 

They will receive the LORD's blessing and have a right relationship with God their savior. 



###### 6 

Such people may seek you and worship in your presence, O God of Jacob.[^a] Interlude 



###### 7 

Open up, ancient gates! Open up, ancient doors, and let the King of glory enter. 



###### 8 

Who is the King of glory? The LORD, strong and mighty; the LORD, invincible in battle. 



###### 9 

Open up, ancient gates! Open up, ancient doors, and let the King of glory enter. 



###### 10 

Who is the King of glory? The LORD of Heaven's Armies-- he is the King of glory. Interlude ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 24:6 As in two Hebrew manuscripts and Greek and Syriac versions; most Hebrew manuscripts read _O Jacob._
