---
Aliases: [Psalms 28]
previous: ['Ps 27']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 29']
---
# Psalms 28

***




###### 1 

I pray to you, O LORD, my rock. Do not turn a deaf ear to me. For if you are silent, I might as well give up and die. 



###### 2 

Listen to my prayer for mercy as I cry out to you for help, as I lift my hands toward your holy sanctuary. 



###### 3 

Do not drag me away with the wicked-- with those who do evil-- those who speak friendly words to their neighbors while planning evil in their hearts. 



###### 4 

Give them the punishment they so richly deserve! Measure it out in proportion to their wickedness. Pay them back for all their evil deeds! Give them a taste of what they have done to others. 



###### 5 

They care nothing for what the LORD has done or for what his hands have made. So he will tear them down, and they will never be rebuilt! 



###### 6 

Praise the LORD! For he has heard my cry for mercy. 



###### 7 

The LORD is my strength and shield. I trust him with all my heart. He helps me, and my heart is filled with joy. I burst out in songs of thanksgiving. 



###### 8 

The LORD gives his people strength. He is a safe fortress for his anointed king. 



###### 9 

Save your people! Bless Israel, your special possession.[^a] Lead them like a shepherd, and carry them in your arms forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 28:9 Hebrew _Bless your inheritance._
