---
Aliases: [Psalms 26]
previous: ['Ps 25']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 27']
---
# Psalms 26

***




###### 1 

Declare me innocent, O LORD, for I have acted with integrity; I have trusted in the LORD without wavering. 



###### 2 

Put me on trial, LORD, and cross-examine me. Test my motives and my heart. 



###### 3 

For I am always aware of your unfailing love, and I have lived according to your truth. 



###### 4 

I do not spend time with liars or go along with hypocrites. 



###### 5 

I hate the gatherings of those who do evil, and I refuse to join in with the wicked. 



###### 6 

I wash my hands to declare my innocence. I come to your altar, O LORD, 



###### 7 

singing a song of thanksgiving and telling of all your wonders. 



###### 8 

I love your sanctuary, LORD, the place where your glorious presence dwells. 



###### 9 

Don't let me suffer the fate of sinners. Don't condemn me along with murderers. 



###### 10 

Their hands are dirty with evil schemes, and they constantly take bribes. 



###### 11 

But I am not like that; I live with integrity. So redeem me and show me mercy. 



###### 12 

Now I stand on solid ground, and I will publicly praise the LORD. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
