---
Aliases: [Psalms 20]
previous: ['Ps 19']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 21']
---
# Psalms 20

***




###### 1 

In times of trouble, may the LORD answer your cry. May the name of the God of Jacob keep you safe from all harm. 



###### 2 

May he send you help from his sanctuary and strengthen you from Jerusalem.[^a] 



###### 3 

May he remember all your gifts and look favorably on your burnt offerings. Interlude 



###### 4 

May he grant your heart's desires and make all your plans succeed. 



###### 5 

May we shout for joy when we hear of your victory and raise a victory banner in the name of our God. May the LORD answer all your prayers. 



###### 6 

Now I know that the LORD rescues his anointed king. He will answer him from his holy heaven and rescue him by his great power. 



###### 7 

Some nations boast of their chariots and horses, but we boast in the name of the LORD our God. 



###### 8 

Those nations will fall down and collapse, but we will rise up and stand firm. 



###### 9 

Give victory to our king, O LORD! Answer our cry for help. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 20:2 Hebrew _Zion._
