---
Aliases: [Psalms 27]
previous: ['Ps 26']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 28']
---
# Psalms 27

***




###### 1 

The LORD is my light and my salvation-- so why should I be afraid? The LORD is my fortress, protecting me from danger, so why should I tremble? 



###### 2 

When evil people come to devour me, when my enemies and foes attack me, they will stumble and fall. 



###### 3 

Though a mighty army surrounds me, my heart will not be afraid. Even if I am attacked, I will remain confident. 



###### 4 

The one thing I ask of the LORD-- the thing I seek most-- is to live in the house of the LORD all the days of my life, delighting in the LORD's perfections and meditating in his Temple. 



###### 5 

For he will conceal me there when troubles come; he will hide me in his sanctuary. He will place me out of reach on a high rock. 



###### 6 

Then I will hold my head high above my enemies who surround me. At his sanctuary I will offer sacrifices with shouts of joy, singing and praising the LORD with music. 



###### 7 

Hear me as I pray, O LORD. Be merciful and answer me! 



###### 8 

My heart has heard you say, "Come and talk with me." And my heart responds, "LORD, I am coming." 



###### 9 

Do not turn your back on me. Do not reject your servant in anger. You have always been my helper. Don't leave me now; don't abandon me, O God of my salvation! 



###### 10 

Even if my father and mother abandon me, the LORD will hold me close. 



###### 11 

Teach me how to live, O LORD. Lead me along the right path, for my enemies are waiting for me. 



###### 12 

Do not let me fall into their hands. For they accuse me of things I've never done; with every breath they threaten me with violence. 



###### 13 

Yet I am confident I will see the LORD's goodness while I am here in the land of the living. 



###### 14 

Wait patiently for the LORD. Be brave and courageous. Yes, wait patiently for the LORD. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
