---
Aliases: [Psalms 34]
previous: ['Ps 33']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 35']
---
# Psalms 34

***




###### 1 

I will praise the LORD at all times. I will constantly speak his praises. 



###### 2 

I will boast only in the LORD; let all who are helpless take heart. 



###### 3 

Come, let us tell of the LORD's greatness; let us exalt his name together. 



###### 4 

I prayed to the LORD, and he answered me. He freed me from all my fears. 



###### 5 

Those who look to him for help will be radiant with joy; no shadow of shame will darken their faces. 



###### 6 

In my desperation I prayed, and the LORD listened; he saved me from all my troubles. 



###### 7 

For the angel of the LORD is a guard; he surrounds and defends all who fear him. 



###### 8 

Taste and see that the LORD is good. Oh, the joys of those who take refuge in him! 



###### 9 

Fear the LORD, you his godly people, for those who fear him will have all they need. 



###### 10 

Even strong young lions sometimes go hungry, but those who trust in the LORD will lack no good thing. 



###### 11 

Come, my children, and listen to me, and I will teach you to fear the LORD. 



###### 12 

Does anyone want to live a life that is long and prosperous? 



###### 13 

Then keep your tongue from speaking evil and your lips from telling lies! 



###### 14 

Turn away from evil and do good. Search for peace, and work to maintain it. 



###### 15 

The eyes of the LORD watch over those who do right; his ears are open to their cries for help. 



###### 16 

But the LORD turns his face against those who do evil; he will erase their memory from the earth. 



###### 17 

The LORD hears his people when they call to him for help. He rescues them from all their troubles. 



###### 18 

The LORD is close to the brokenhearted; he rescues those whose spirits are crushed. 



###### 19 

The righteous person faces many troubles, but the LORD comes to the rescue each time. 



###### 20 

For the LORD protects the bones of the righteous; not one of them is broken! 



###### 21 

Calamity will surely destroy the wicked, and those who hate the righteous will be punished. 



###### 22 

But the LORD will redeem those who serve him. No one who takes refuge in him will be condemned. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 34 This psalm is a Hebrew acrostic poem; each verse begins with a successive letter of the Hebrew alphabet.
