---
Aliases: [Psalms 30]
previous: ['Ps 29']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 31']
---
# Psalms 30

***




###### 1 

I will exalt you, LORD, for you rescued me. You refused to let my enemies triumph over me. 



###### 2 

O LORD my God, I cried to you for help, and you restored my health. 



###### 3 

You brought me up from the grave,[^a] O LORD. You kept me from falling into the pit of death. 



###### 4 

Sing to the LORD, all you godly ones! Praise his holy name. 



###### 5 

For his anger lasts only a moment, but his favor lasts a lifetime! Weeping may last through the night, but joy comes with the morning. 



###### 6 

When I was prosperous, I said, "Nothing can stop me now!" 



###### 7 

Your favor, O LORD, made me as secure as a mountain. Then you turned away from me, and I was shattered. 



###### 8 

I cried out to you, O LORD. I begged the Lord for mercy, saying, 



###### 9 

"What will you gain if I die, if I sink into the grave? Can my dust praise you? Can it tell of your faithfulness? 



###### 10 

Hear me, LORD, and have mercy on me. Help me, O LORD." 



###### 11 

You have turned my mourning into joyful dancing. You have taken away my clothes of mourning and clothed me with joy, 



###### 12 

that I might sing praises to you and not be silent. O LORD my God, I will give you thanks forever! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 30:3 Hebrew _from Sheol._
