---
Aliases: [Psalms 39]
previous: ['Ps 38']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 40']
---
# Psalms 39

***




###### 1 

I said to myself, "I will watch what I do and not sin in what I say. I will hold my tongue when the ungodly are around me." 



###### 2 

But as I stood there in silence-- not even speaking of good things-- the turmoil within me grew worse. 



###### 3 

The more I thought about it, the hotter I got, igniting a fire of words: 



###### 4 

"LORD, remind me how brief my time on earth will be. Remind me that my days are numbered-- how fleeting my life is. 



###### 5 

You have made my life no longer than the width of my hand. My entire lifetime is just a moment to you; at best, each of us is but a breath." Interlude 



###### 6 

We are merely moving shadows, and all our busy rushing ends in nothing. We heap up wealth, not knowing who will spend it. 



###### 7 

And so, Lord, where do I put my hope? My only hope is in you. 



###### 8 

Rescue me from my rebellion. Do not let fools mock me. 



###### 9 

I am silent before you; I won't say a word, for my punishment is from you. 



###### 10 

But please stop striking me! I am exhausted by the blows from your hand. 



###### 11 

When you discipline us for our sins, you consume like a moth what is precious to us. Each of us is but a breath. Interlude 



###### 12 

Hear my prayer, O LORD! Listen to my cries for help! Don't ignore my tears. For I am your guest-- a traveler passing through, as my ancestors were before me. 



###### 13 

Leave me alone so I can smile again before I am gone and exist no more. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
