---
Aliases: [Psalms 33]
previous: ['Ps 32']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 34']
---
# Psalms 33

***




###### 1 

Let the godly sing for joy to the LORD; it is fitting for the pure to praise him. 



###### 2 

Praise the LORD with melodies on the lyre; make music for him on the ten-stringed harp. 



###### 3 

Sing a new song of praise to him; play skillfully on the harp, and sing with joy. 



###### 4 

For the word of the LORD holds true, and we can trust everything he does. 



###### 5 

He loves whatever is just and good; the unfailing love of the LORD fills the earth. 



###### 6 

The LORD merely spoke, and the heavens were created. He breathed the word, and all the stars were born. 



###### 7 

He assigned the sea its boundaries and locked the oceans in vast reservoirs. 



###### 8 

Let the whole world fear the LORD, and let everyone stand in awe of him. 



###### 9 

For when he spoke, the world began! It appeared at his command. 



###### 10 

The LORD frustrates the plans of the nations and thwarts all their schemes. 



###### 11 

But the LORD's plans stand firm forever; his intentions can never be shaken. 



###### 12 

What joy for the nation whose God is the LORD, whose people he has chosen as his inheritance. 



###### 13 

The LORD looks down from heaven and sees the whole human race. 



###### 14 

From his throne he observes all who live on the earth. 



###### 15 

He made their hearts, so he understands everything they do. 



###### 16 

The best-equipped army cannot save a king, nor is great strength enough to save a warrior. 



###### 17 

Don't count on your warhorse to give you victory-- for all its strength, it cannot save you. 



###### 18 

But the LORD watches over those who fear him, those who rely on his unfailing love. 



###### 19 

He rescues them from death and keeps them alive in times of famine. 



###### 20 

We put our hope in the LORD. He is our help and our shield. 



###### 21 

In him our hearts rejoice, for we trust in his holy name. 



###### 22 

Let your unfailing love surround us, LORD, for our hope is in you alone. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
