---
Aliases: [Psalms 36]
previous: ['Ps 35']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 37']
---
# Psalms 36

***




###### 1 

Sin whispers to the wicked, deep within their hearts.[^a] They have no fear of God at all. 



###### 2 

In their blind conceit, they cannot see how wicked they really are. 



###### 3 

Everything they say is crooked and deceitful. They refuse to act wisely or do good. 



###### 4 

They lie awake at night, hatching sinful plots. Their actions are never good. They make no attempt to turn from evil. 



###### 5 

Your unfailing love, O LORD, is as vast as the heavens; your faithfulness reaches beyond the clouds. 



###### 6 

Your righteousness is like the mighty mountains, your justice like the ocean depths. You care for people and animals alike, O LORD. 



###### 7 

How precious is your unfailing love, O God! All humanity finds shelter in the shadow of your wings. 



###### 8 

You feed them from the abundance of your own house, letting them drink from your river of delights. 



###### 9 

For you are the fountain of life, the light by which we see. 



###### 10 

Pour out your unfailing love on those who love you; give justice to those with honest hearts. 



###### 11 

Don't let the proud trample me or the wicked push me around. 



###### 12 

Look! Those who do evil have fallen! They are thrown down, never to rise again. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 36:1 As in some Hebrew manuscripts and Syriac version, which read _in his heart._ Masoretic Text reads _in my heart._
