---
Aliases: [Psalms 48]
previous: ['Ps 47']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 49']
---
# Psalms 48

***




###### 1 

How great is the LORD, how deserving of praise, in the city of our God, which sits on his holy mountain! 



###### 2 

It is high and magnificent; the whole earth rejoices to see it! Mount Zion, the holy mountain,[^a] is the city of the great King! 



###### 3 

God himself is in Jerusalem's towers, revealing himself as its defender. 



###### 4 

The kings of the earth joined forces and advanced against the city. 



###### 5 

But when they saw it, they were stunned; they were terrified and ran away. 



###### 6 

They were gripped with terror and writhed in pain like a woman in labor. 



###### 7 

You destroyed them like the mighty ships of Tarshish shattered by a powerful east wind. 



###### 8 

We had heard of the city's glory, but now we have seen it ourselves-- the city of the LORD of Heaven's Armies. It is the city of our God; he will make it safe forever. Interlude 



###### 9 

O God, we meditate on your unfailing love as we worship in your Temple. 



###### 10 

As your name deserves, O God, you will be praised to the ends of the earth. Your strong right hand is filled with victory. 



###### 11 

Let the people on Mount Zion rejoice. Let all the towns of Judah be glad because of your justice. 



###### 12 

Go, inspect the city of Jerusalem.[^b] Walk around and count the many towers. 



###### 13 

Take note of the fortified walls, and tour all the citadels, that you may describe them to future generations. 



###### 14 

For that is what God is like. He is our God forever and ever, and he will guide us until we die. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 48:2 Or _Mount Zion, in the far north;_ Hebrew reads _Mount Zion, the heights of Zaphon._ [^b]: 48:12 Hebrew _Zion._
