---
Aliases: [Psalms 40]
previous: ['Ps 39']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 41']
---
# Psalms 40

***




###### 1 

I waited patiently for the LORD to help me, and he turned to me and heard my cry. 



###### 2 

He lifted me out of the pit of despair, out of the mud and the mire. He set my feet on solid ground and steadied me as I walked along. 



###### 3 

He has given me a new song to sing, a hymn of praise to our God. Many will see what he has done and be amazed. They will put their trust in the LORD. 



###### 4 

Oh, the joys of those who trust the LORD, who have no confidence in the proud or in those who worship idols. 



###### 5 

O LORD my God, you have performed many wonders for us. Your plans for us are too numerous to list. You have no equal. If I tried to recite all your wonderful deeds, I would never come to the end of them. 



###### 6 

You take no delight in sacrifices or offerings. Now that you have made me listen, I finally understand[^a]-- you don't require burnt offerings or sin offerings. 



###### 7 

Then I said, "Look, I have come. As is written about me in the Scriptures: 



###### 8 

I take joy in doing your will, my God, for your instructions are written on my heart." 



###### 9 

I have told all your people about your justice. I have not been afraid to speak out, as you, O LORD, well know. 



###### 10 

I have not kept the good news of your justice hidden in my heart; I have talked about your faithfulness and saving power. I have told everyone in the great assembly of your unfailing love and faithfulness. 



###### 11 

LORD, don't hold back your tender mercies from me. Let your unfailing love and faithfulness always protect me. 



###### 12 

For troubles surround me-- too many to count! My sins pile up so high I can't see my way out. They outnumber the hairs on my head. I have lost all courage. 



###### 13 

Please, LORD, rescue me! Come quickly, LORD, and help me. 



###### 14 

May those who try to destroy me be humiliated and put to shame. May those who take delight in my trouble be turned back in disgrace. 



###### 15 

Let them be horrified by their shame, for they said, "Aha! We've got him now!" 



###### 16 

But may all who search for you be filled with joy and gladness in you. May those who love your salvation repeatedly shout, "The LORD is great!" 



###### 17 

As for me, since I am poor and needy, let the Lord keep me in his thoughts. You are my helper and my savior. O my God, do not delay. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 40:6 Greek version reads _You have given me a body._ Compare [Heb 10:5].
