---
Aliases: [Psalms 46]
previous: ['Ps 45']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 47']
---
# Psalms 46

***




###### 1 

God is our refuge and strength, always ready to help in times of trouble. 



###### 2 

So we will not fear when earthquakes come and the mountains crumble into the sea. 



###### 3 

Let the oceans roar and foam. Let the mountains tremble as the waters surge! Interlude 



###### 4 

A river brings joy to the city of our God, the sacred home of the Most High. 



###### 5 

God dwells in that city; it cannot be destroyed. From the very break of day, God will protect it. 



###### 6 

The nations are in chaos, and their kingdoms crumble! God's voice thunders, and the earth melts! 



###### 7 

The LORD of Heaven's Armies is here among us; the God of Israel[^b] is our fortress. Interlude 



###### 8 

Come, see the glorious works of the LORD: See how he brings destruction upon the world. 



###### 9 

He causes wars to end throughout the earth. He breaks the bow and snaps the spear; he burns the shields with fire. 



###### 10 

"Be still, and know that I am God! I will be honored by every nation. I will be honored throughout the world." 



###### 11 

The LORD of Heaven's Armies is here among us; the God of Israel is our fortress. Interlude ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 46:Title Hebrew _according to alamoth._ [^b]: 46:7 Hebrew _of Jacob;_ also in [46:11]. See note on [44:4].
