---
Aliases: [Psalms 47]
previous: ['Ps 46']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 48']
---
# Psalms 47

***




###### 1 

Come, everyone! Clap your hands! Shout to God with joyful praise! 



###### 2 

For the LORD Most High is awesome. He is the great King of all the earth. 



###### 3 

He subdues the nations before us, putting our enemies beneath our feet. 



###### 4 

He chose the Promised Land as our inheritance, the proud possession of Jacob's descendants, whom he loves. Interlude 



###### 5 

God has ascended with a mighty shout. The LORD has ascended with trumpets blaring. 



###### 6 

Sing praises to God, sing praises; sing praises to our King, sing praises! 



###### 7 

For God is the King over all the earth. Praise him with a psalm.[^a] 



###### 8 

God reigns above the nations, sitting on his holy throne. 



###### 9 

The rulers of the world have gathered together with the people of the God of Abraham. For all the kings of the earth belong to God. He is highly honored everywhere. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 47:7 Hebrew _maskil._ This may be a literary or musical term.
