---
Aliases: [Psalms 41]
previous: ['Ps 40']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 42']
---
# Psalms 41

***




###### 1 

Oh, the joys of those who are kind to the poor! The LORD rescues them when they are in trouble. 



###### 2 

The LORD protects them and keeps them alive. He gives them prosperity in the land and rescues them from their enemies. 



###### 3 

The LORD nurses them when they are sick and restores them to health. 



###### 4 

"O LORD," I prayed, "have mercy on me. Heal me, for I have sinned against you." 



###### 5 

But my enemies say nothing but evil about me. "How soon will he die and be forgotten?" they ask. 



###### 6 

They visit me as if they were my friends, but all the while they gather gossip, and when they leave, they spread it everywhere. 



###### 7 

All who hate me whisper about me, imagining the worst. 



###### 8 

"He has some fatal disease," they say. "He will never get out of that bed!" 



###### 9 

Even my best friend, the one I trusted completely, the one who shared my food, has turned against me. 



###### 10 

LORD, have mercy on me. Make me well again, so I can pay them back! 



###### 11 

I know you are pleased with me, for you have not let my enemies triumph over me. 



###### 12 

You have preserved my life because I am innocent; you have brought me into your presence forever. 



###### 13 

Praise the LORD, the God of Israel, who lives from everlasting to everlasting. Amen and amen! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
