---
Aliases: [Psalms 52]
previous: ['Ps 51']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 53']
---
# Psalms 52

***




###### 1 

Why do you boast about your crimes, great warrior? Don't you realize God's justice continues forever? 



###### 2 

All day long you plot destruction. Your tongue cuts like a sharp razor; you're an expert at telling lies. 



###### 3 

You love evil more than good and lies more than truth. Interlude 



###### 4 

You love to destroy others with your words, you liar! 



###### 5 

But God will strike you down once and for all. He will pull you from your home and uproot you from the land of the living. Interlude 



###### 6 

The righteous will see it and be amazed. They will laugh and say, 



###### 7 

"Look what happens to mighty warriors who do not trust in God. They trust their wealth instead and grow more and more bold in their wickedness." 



###### 8 

But I am like an olive tree, thriving in the house of God. I will always trust in God's unfailing love. 



###### 9 

I will praise you forever, O God, for what you have done. I will trust in your good name in the presence of your faithful people. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 52:Title Hebrew _maskil._ This may be a literary or musical term.
