---
Aliases: [Psalms 59]
previous: ['Ps 58']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 60']
---
# Psalms 59

***




###### 1 

Rescue me from my enemies, O God. Protect me from those who have come to destroy me. 



###### 2 

Rescue me from these criminals; save me from these murderers. 



###### 3 

They have set an ambush for me. Fierce enemies are out there waiting, LORD, though I have not sinned or offended them. 



###### 4 

I have done nothing wrong, yet they prepare to attack me. Wake up! See what is happening and help me! 



###### 5 

O LORD God of Heaven's Armies, the God of Israel, wake up and punish those hostile nations. Show no mercy to wicked traitors. Interlude 



###### 6 

They come out at night, snarling like vicious dogs as they prowl the streets. 



###### 7 

Listen to the filth that comes from their mouths; their words cut like swords. "After all, who can hear us?" they sneer. 



###### 8 

But LORD, you laugh at them. You scoff at all the hostile nations. 



###### 9 

You are my strength; I wait for you to rescue me, for you, O God, are my fortress. 



###### 10 

In his unfailing love, my God will stand with me. He will let me look down in triumph on all my enemies. 



###### 11 

Don't kill them, for my people soon forget such lessons; stagger them with your power, and bring them to their knees, O Lord our shield. 



###### 12 

Because of the sinful things they say, because of the evil that is on their lips, let them be captured by their pride, their curses, and their lies. 



###### 13 

Destroy them in your anger! Wipe them out completely! Then the whole world will know that God reigns in Israel.[^b] Interlude 



###### 14 

My enemies come out at night, snarling like vicious dogs as they prowl the streets. 



###### 15 

They scavenge for food but go to sleep unsatisfied.[^c] 



###### 16 

But as for me, I will sing about your power. Each morning I will sing with joy about your unfailing love. For you have been my refuge, a place of safety when I am in distress. 



###### 17 

O my Strength, to you I sing praises, for you, O God, are my refuge, the God who shows me unfailing love. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 59:Title Hebrew _miktam._ This may be a literary or musical term. [^b]: 59:13 Hebrew _in Jacob._ See note on [44:4]. [^c]: 59:15 Or _and growl if they don’t get enough._
