---
Aliases: [Psalms 55]
previous: ['Ps 54']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 56']
---
# Psalms 55

***




###### 1 

Listen to my prayer, O God. Do not ignore my cry for help! 



###### 2 

Please listen and answer me, for I am overwhelmed by my troubles. 



###### 3 

My enemies shout at me, making loud and wicked threats. They bring trouble on me and angrily hunt me down. 



###### 4 

My heart pounds in my chest. The terror of death assaults me. 



###### 5 

Fear and trembling overwhelm me, and I can't stop shaking. 



###### 6 

Oh, that I had wings like a dove; then I would fly away and rest! 



###### 7 

I would fly far away to the quiet of the wilderness. Interlude 



###### 8 

How quickly I would escape-- far from this wild storm of hatred. 



###### 9 

Confuse them, Lord, and frustrate their plans, for I see violence and conflict in the city. 



###### 10 

Its walls are patrolled day and night against invaders, but the real danger is wickedness within the city. 



###### 11 

Everything is falling apart; threats and cheating are rampant in the streets. 



###### 12 

It is not an enemy who taunts me-- I could bear that. It is not my foes who so arrogantly insult me-- I could have hidden from them. 



###### 13 

Instead, it is you--my equal, my companion and close friend. 



###### 14 

What good fellowship we once enjoyed as we walked together to the house of God. 



###### 15 

Let death stalk my enemies; let the grave[^b] swallow them alive, for evil makes its home within them. 



###### 16 

But I will call on God, and the LORD will rescue me. 



###### 17 

Morning, noon, and night I cry out in my distress, and the LORD hears my voice. 



###### 18 

He ransoms me and keeps me safe from the battle waged against me, though many still oppose me. 



###### 19 

God, who has ruled forever, will hear me and humble them. Interlude For my enemies refuse to change their ways; they do not fear God. 



###### 20 

As for my companion, he betrayed his friends; he broke his promises. 



###### 21 

His words are as smooth as butter, but in his heart is war. His words are as soothing as lotion, but underneath are daggers! 



###### 22 

Give your burdens to the LORD, and he will take care of you. He will not permit the godly to slip and fall. 



###### 23 

But you, O God, will send the wicked down to the pit of destruction. Murderers and liars will die young, but I am trusting you to save me. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 55:Title Hebrew _maskil._ This may be a literary or musical term. [^b]: 55:15 Hebrew _let Sheol._
