---
Aliases: [Psalms 51]
previous: ['Ps 50']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 52']
---
# Psalms 51

***




###### 1 

Have mercy on me, O God, because of your unfailing love. Because of your great compassion, blot out the stain of my sins. 



###### 2 

Wash me clean from my guilt. Purify me from my sin. 



###### 3 

For I recognize my rebellion; it haunts me day and night. 



###### 4 

Against you, and you alone, have I sinned; I have done what is evil in your sight. You will be proved right in what you say, and your judgment against me is just.[^a] 



###### 5 

For I was born a sinner-- yes, from the moment my mother conceived me. 



###### 6 

But you desire honesty from the womb,[^b] teaching me wisdom even there. 



###### 7 

Purify me from my sins,[^c] and I will be clean; wash me, and I will be whiter than snow. 



###### 8 

Oh, give me back my joy again; you have broken me-- now let me rejoice. 



###### 9 

Don't keep looking at my sins. Remove the stain of my guilt. 



###### 10 

Create in me a clean heart, O God. Renew a loyal spirit within me. 



###### 11 

Do not banish me from your presence, and don't take your Holy Spirit[^d] from me. 



###### 12 

Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and make me willing to obey you. 



###### 13 

Then I will teach your ways to rebels, and they will return to you. 



###### 14 

Forgive me for shedding blood, O God who saves; then I will joyfully sing of your forgiveness. 



###### 15 

Unseal my lips, O Lord, that my mouth may praise you. 



###### 16 

You do not desire a sacrifice, or I would offer one. You do not want a burnt offering. 



###### 17 

The sacrifice you desire is a broken spirit. You will not reject a broken and repentant heart, O God. 



###### 18 

Look with favor on Zion and help her; rebuild the walls of Jerusalem. 



###### 19 

Then you will be pleased with sacrifices offered in the right spirit-- with burnt offerings and whole burnt offerings. Then bulls will again be sacrificed on your altar. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 51:4 Greek version reads _and you will win your case in court._ Compare [Rom 3:4]. [^b]: 51:6 Or _from the heart;_ Hebrew reads _in the inward parts._ [^c]: 51:7 Hebrew _Purify me with the hyssop branch._ [^d]: 51:11 Or _your spirit of holiness._
