---
Aliases: [Psalms 53]
previous: ['Ps 52']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 54']
---
# Psalms 53

***




###### 1 

Only fools say in their hearts, "There is no God." They are corrupt, and their actions are evil; not one of them does good! 



###### 2 

God looks down from heaven on the entire human race; he looks to see if anyone is truly wise, if anyone seeks God. 



###### 3 

But no, all have turned away; all have become corrupt.[^b] No one does good, not a single one! 



###### 4 

Will those who do evil never learn? They eat up my people like bread and wouldn't think of praying to God. 



###### 5 

Terror will grip them, terror like they have never known before. God will scatter the bones of your enemies. You will put them to shame, for God has rejected them. 



###### 6 

Who will come from Mount Zion to rescue Israel? When God restores his people, Jacob will shout with joy, and Israel will rejoice. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 53:Title Hebrew _According to mahalath; a maskil._ These may be literary or musical terms. [^b]: 53:3 Greek version reads _have become useless._ Compare [Rom 3:12].
