---
Aliases: [Psalms 57]
previous: ['Ps 56']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 58']
---
# Psalms 57

***




###### 1 

Have mercy on me, O God, have mercy! I look to you for protection. I will hide beneath the shadow of your wings until the danger passes by. 



###### 2 

I cry out to God Most High,[^b] to God who will fulfill his purpose for me. 



###### 3 

He will send help from heaven to rescue me, disgracing those who hound me. Interlude My God will send forth his unfailing love and faithfulness. 



###### 4 

I am surrounded by fierce lions who greedily devour human prey-- whose teeth pierce like spears and arrows, and whose tongues cut like swords. 



###### 5 

Be exalted, O God, above the highest heavens! May your glory shine over all the earth. 



###### 6 

My enemies have set a trap for me. I am weary from distress. They have dug a deep pit in my path, but they themselves have fallen into it. Interlude 



###### 7 

My heart is confident in you, O God; my heart is confident. No wonder I can sing your praises! 



###### 8 

Wake up, my heart! Wake up, O lyre and harp! I will wake the dawn with my song. 



###### 9 

I will thank you, Lord, among all the people. I will sing your praises among the nations. 



###### 10 

For your unfailing love is as high as the heavens. Your faithfulness reaches to the clouds. 



###### 11 

Be exalted, O God, above the highest heavens. May your glory shine over all the earth. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 57:Title Hebrew _miktam._ This may be a literary or musical term. [^b]: 57:2 Hebrew _Elohim-Elyon._
