---
Aliases: [Psalms 58]
previous: ['Ps 57']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 59']
---
# Psalms 58

***




###### 1 

Justice--do you rulers[^b] know the meaning of the word? Do you judge the people fairly? 



###### 2 

No! You plot injustice in your hearts. You spread violence throughout the land. 



###### 3 

These wicked people are born sinners; even from birth they have lied and gone their own way. 



###### 4 

They spit venom like deadly snakes; they are like cobras that refuse to listen, 



###### 5 

ignoring the tunes of the snake charmers, no matter how skillfully they play. 



###### 6 

Break off their fangs, O God! Smash the jaws of these lions, O LORD! 



###### 7 

May they disappear like water into thirsty ground. Make their weapons useless in their hands.[^c] 



###### 8 

May they be like snails that dissolve into slime, like a stillborn child who will never see the sun. 



###### 9 

God will sweep them away, both young and old, faster than a pot heats over burning thorns. 



###### 10 

The godly will rejoice when they see injustice avenged. They will wash their feet in the blood of the wicked. 



###### 11 

Then at last everyone will say, "There truly is a reward for those who live for God; surely there is a God who judges justly here on earth." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 58:Title Hebrew _miktam._ This may be a literary or musical term. [^b]: 58:1 Or _you gods._ [^c]: 58:7 Or _Let them be trodden down and wither like grass._ The meaning of the Hebrew is uncertain.
