---
Aliases: [Psalms 62]
previous: ['Ps 61']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 63']
---
# Psalms 62

***




###### 1 

I wait quietly before God, for my victory comes from him. 



###### 2 

He alone is my rock and my salvation, my fortress where I will never be shaken. 



###### 3 

So many enemies against one man-- all of them trying to kill me. To them I'm just a broken-down wall or a tottering fence. 



###### 4 

They plan to topple me from my high position. They delight in telling lies about me. They praise me to my face but curse me in their hearts. Interlude 



###### 5 

Let all that I am wait quietly before God, for my hope is in him. 



###### 6 

He alone is my rock and my salvation, my fortress where I will not be shaken. 



###### 7 

My victory and honor come from God alone. He is my refuge, a rock where no enemy can reach me. 



###### 8 

O my people, trust in him at all times. Pour out your heart to him, for God is our refuge. Interlude 



###### 9 

Common people are as worthless as a puff of wind, and the powerful are not what they appear to be. If you weigh them on the scales, together they are lighter than a breath of air. 



###### 10 

Don't make your living by extortion or put your hope in stealing. And if your wealth increases, don't make it the center of your life. 



###### 11 

God has spoken plainly, and I have heard it many times: Power, O God, belongs to you; 



###### 12 

unfailing love, O Lord, is yours. Surely you repay all people according to what they have done. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
