---
Aliases: [Psalms 60]
previous: ['Ps 59']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 61']
---
# Psalms 60

***




###### 1 

You have rejected us, O God, and broken our defenses. You have been angry with us; now restore us to your favor. 



###### 2 

You have shaken our land and split it open. Seal the cracks, for the land trembles. 



###### 3 

You have been very hard on us, making us drink wine that sent us reeling. 



###### 4 

But you have raised a banner for those who fear you-- a rallying point in the face of attack. Interlude 



###### 5 

Now rescue your beloved people. Answer and save us by your power. 



###### 6 

God has promised this by his holiness[^b]: "I will divide up Shechem with joy. I will measure out the valley of Succoth. 



###### 7 

Gilead is mine, and Manasseh, too. Ephraim, my helmet, will produce my warriors, and Judah, my scepter, will produce my kings. 



###### 8 

But Moab, my washbasin, will become my servant, and I will wipe my feet on Edom and shout in triumph over Philistia." 



###### 9 

Who will bring me into the fortified city? Who will bring me victory over Edom? 



###### 10 

Have you rejected us, O God? Will you no longer march with our armies? 



###### 11 

Oh, please help us against our enemies, for all human help is useless. 



###### 12 

With God's help we will do mighty things, for he will trample down our foes. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 60:Title Hebrew _miktam._ This may be a literary or musical term. [^b]: 60:6 Or _in his sanctuary._
