---
Aliases: [Psalms 63]
previous: ['Ps 62']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 64']
---
# Psalms 63

***




###### 1 

O God, you are my God; I earnestly search for you. My soul thirsts for you; my whole body longs for you in this parched and weary land where there is no water. 



###### 2 

I have seen you in your sanctuary and gazed upon your power and glory. 



###### 3 

Your unfailing love is better than life itself; how I praise you! 



###### 4 

I will praise you as long as I live, lifting up my hands to you in prayer. 



###### 5 

You satisfy me more than the richest feast. I will praise you with songs of joy. 



###### 6 

I lie awake thinking of you, meditating on you through the night. 



###### 7 

Because you are my helper, I sing for joy in the shadow of your wings. 



###### 8 

I cling to you; your strong right hand holds me securely. 



###### 9 

But those plotting to destroy me will come to ruin. They will go down into the depths of the earth. 



###### 10 

They will die by the sword and become the food of jackals. 



###### 11 

But the king will rejoice in God. All who swear to tell the truth will praise him, while liars will be silenced. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
