---
Aliases: [Psalms 64]
previous: ['Ps 63']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 65']
---
# Psalms 64

***




###### 1 

O God, listen to my complaint. Protect my life from my enemies' threats. 



###### 2 

Hide me from the plots of this evil mob, from this gang of wrongdoers. 



###### 3 

They sharpen their tongues like swords and aim their bitter words like arrows. 



###### 4 

They shoot from ambush at the innocent, attacking suddenly and fearlessly. 



###### 5 

They encourage each other to do evil and plan how to set their traps in secret. "Who will ever notice?" they ask. 



###### 6 

As they plot their crimes, they say, "We have devised the perfect plan!" Yes, the human heart and mind are cunning. 



###### 7 

But God himself will shoot them with his arrows, suddenly striking them down. 



###### 8 

Their own tongues will ruin them, and all who see them will shake their heads in scorn. 



###### 9 

Then everyone will be afraid; they will proclaim the mighty acts of God and realize all the amazing things he does. 



###### 10 

The godly will rejoice in the LORD and find shelter in him. And those who do what is right will praise him. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
