---
Aliases: [Psalms 76]
previous: ['Ps 75']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 77']
---
# Psalms 76

***




###### 1 

God is honored in Judah; his name is great in Israel. 



###### 2 

Jerusalem[^a] is where he lives; Mount Zion is his home. 



###### 3 

There he has broken the fiery arrows of the enemy, the shields and swords and weapons of war. Interlude 



###### 4 

You are glorious and more majestic than the everlasting mountains.[^b] 



###### 5 

Our boldest enemies have been plundered. They lie before us in the sleep of death. No warrior could lift a hand against us. 



###### 6 

At the blast of your breath, O God of Jacob, their horses and chariots lay still. 



###### 7 

No wonder you are greatly feared! Who can stand before you when your anger explodes? 



###### 8 

From heaven you sentenced your enemies; the earth trembled and stood silent before you. 



###### 9 

You stand up to judge those who do evil, O God, and to rescue the oppressed of the earth. Interlude 



###### 10 

Human defiance only enhances your glory, for you use it as a weapon.[^c] 



###### 11 

Make vows to the LORD your God, and keep them. Let everyone bring tribute to the Awesome One. 



###### 12 

For he breaks the pride of princes, and the kings of the earth fear him. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 76:2 Hebrew _Salem,_ another name for Jerusalem. [^b]: 76:4 As in Greek version; Hebrew reads _than mountains filled with beasts of prey._ [^c]: 76:10 The meaning of the Hebrew is uncertain.
