---
Aliases: [Psalms 75]
previous: ['Ps 74']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 76']
---
# Psalms 75

***




###### 1 

We thank you, O God! We give thanks because you are near. People everywhere tell of your wonderful deeds. 



###### 2 

God says, "At the time I have planned, I will bring justice against the wicked. 



###### 3 

When the earth quakes and its people live in turmoil, I am the one who keeps its foundations firm. Interlude 



###### 4 

"I warned the proud, 'Stop your boasting!' I told the wicked, 'Don't raise your fists! 



###### 5 

Don't raise your fists in defiance at the heavens or speak with such arrogance.'" 



###### 6 

For no one on earth--from east or west, or even from the wilderness-- should raise a defiant fist.[^a] 



###### 7 

It is God alone who judges; he decides who will rise and who will fall. 



###### 8 

For the LORD holds a cup in his hand that is full of foaming wine mixed with spices. He pours out the wine in judgment, and all the wicked must drink it, draining it to the dregs. 



###### 9 

But as for me, I will always proclaim what God has done; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob. 



###### 10 

For God says, "I will break the strength of the wicked, but I will increase the power of the godly." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 75:6 Hebrew _should lift._
