---
Aliases: [Psalms 84]
previous: ['Ps 83']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 85']
---
# Psalms 84

***




###### 1 

How lovely is your dwelling place, O LORD of Heaven's Armies. 



###### 2 

I long, yes, I faint with longing to enter the courts of the LORD. With my whole being, body and soul, I will shout joyfully to the living God. 



###### 3 

Even the sparrow finds a home, and the swallow builds her nest and raises her young at a place near your altar, O LORD of Heaven's Armies, my King and my God! 



###### 4 

What joy for those who can live in your house, always singing your praises. Interlude 



###### 5 

What joy for those whose strength comes from the LORD, who have set their minds on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem. 



###### 6 

When they walk through the Valley of Weeping,[^b] it will become a place of refreshing springs. The autumn rains will clothe it with blessings. 



###### 7 

They will continue to grow stronger, and each of them will appear before God in Jerusalem.[^c] 



###### 8 

O LORD God of Heaven's Armies, hear my prayer. Listen, O God of Jacob. Interlude 



###### 9 

O God, look with favor upon the king, our shield! Show favor to the one you have anointed. 



###### 10 

A single day in your courts is better than a thousand anywhere else! I would rather be a gatekeeper in the house of my God than live the good life in the homes of the wicked. 



###### 11 

For the LORD God is our sun and our shield. He gives us grace and glory. The LORD will withhold no good thing from those who do what is right. 



###### 12 

O LORD of Heaven's Armies, what joy for those who trust in you. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 84:Title Hebrew _according to the gittith._ [^b]: 84:6 Or _Valley of Poplars;_ Hebrew reads _valley of Baca._ [^c]: 84:7 Hebrew _Zion._
