---
Aliases: [Psalms 87]
previous: ['Ps 86']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 88']
---
# Psalms 87

***




###### 1 

On the holy mountain stands the city founded by the LORD. 



###### 2 

He loves the city of Jerusalem more than any other city in Israel.[^a] 



###### 3 

O city of God, what glorious things are said of you! Interlude 



###### 4 

I will count Egypt[^b] and Babylon among those who know me-- also Philistia and Tyre, and even distant Ethiopia.[^c] They have all become citizens of Jerusalem! 



###### 5 

Regarding Jerusalem[^d] it will be said, "Everyone enjoys the rights of citizenship there." And the Most High will personally bless this city. 



###### 6 

When the LORD registers the nations, he will say, "They have all become citizens of Jerusalem." Interlude 



###### 7 

The people will play flutes[^e] and sing, "The source of my life springs from Jerusalem!" ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 87:2 Hebrew _He loves the gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of Jacob._ See note on [44:4]. [^b]: 87:4a Hebrew _Rahab,_ the name of a mythical sea monster that represents chaos in ancient literature. The name is used here as a poetic name for Egypt. [^c]: 87:4b Hebrew _Cush._ [^d]: 87:5 Hebrew _Zion._ [^e]: 87:7 Or _will dance._
