---
Aliases: [Psalms 88]
previous: ['Ps 87']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 89']
---
# Psalms 88

***




###### 1 

O LORD, God of my salvation, I cry out to you by day. I come to you at night. 



###### 2 

Now hear my prayer; listen to my cry. 



###### 3 

For my life is full of troubles, and death[^b] draws near. 



###### 4 

I am as good as dead, like a strong man with no strength left. 



###### 5 

They have left me among the dead, and I lie like a corpse in a grave. I am forgotten, cut off from your care. 



###### 6 

You have thrown me into the lowest pit, into the darkest depths. 



###### 7 

Your anger weighs me down; with wave after wave you have engulfed me. Interlude 



###### 8 

You have driven my friends away by making me repulsive to them. I am in a trap with no way of escape. 



###### 9 

My eyes are blinded by my tears. Each day I beg for your help, O LORD; I lift my hands to you for mercy. 



###### 10 

Are your wonderful deeds of any use to the dead? Do the dead rise up and praise you? Interlude 



###### 11 

Can those in the grave declare your unfailing love? Can they proclaim your faithfulness in the place of destruction?[^c] 



###### 12 

Can the darkness speak of your wonderful deeds? Can anyone in the land of forgetfulness talk about your righteousness? 



###### 13 

O LORD, I cry out to you. I will keep on pleading day by day. 



###### 14 

O LORD, why do you reject me? Why do you turn your face from me? 



###### 15 

I have been sick and close to death since my youth. I stand helpless and desperate before your terrors. 



###### 16 

Your fierce anger has overwhelmed me. Your terrors have paralyzed me. 



###### 17 

They swirl around me like floodwaters all day long. They have engulfed me completely. 



###### 18 

You have taken away my companions and loved ones. Darkness is my closest friend. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 88:Title Hebrew _maskil._ This may be a literary or musical term. [^b]: 88:3 Hebrew _Sheol._ [^c]: 88:11 Hebrew _in Abaddon?_
