---
Aliases: [Psalms 85]
previous: ['Ps 84']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 86']
---
# Psalms 85

***




###### 1 

LORD, you poured out blessings on your land! You restored the fortunes of Israel.[^a] 



###### 2 

You forgave the guilt of your people-- yes, you covered all their sins. Interlude 



###### 3 

You held back your fury. You kept back your blazing anger. 



###### 4 

Now restore us again, O God of our salvation. Put aside your anger against us once more. 



###### 5 

Will you be angry with us always? Will you prolong your wrath to all generations? 



###### 6 

Won't you revive us again, so your people can rejoice in you? 



###### 7 

Show us your unfailing love, O LORD, and grant us your salvation. 



###### 8 

I listen carefully to what God the LORD is saying, for he speaks peace to his faithful people. But let them not return to their foolish ways. 



###### 9 

Surely his salvation is near to those who fear him, so our land will be filled with his glory. 



###### 10 

Unfailing love and truth have met together. Righteousness and peace have kissed! 



###### 11 

Truth springs up from the earth, and righteousness smiles down from heaven. 



###### 12 

Yes, the LORD pours down his blessings. Our land will yield its bountiful harvest. 



###### 13 

Righteousness goes as a herald before him, preparing the way for his steps. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 85:1 Hebrew _of Jacob._ See note on [44:4].
