---
Aliases: [Psalms 86]
previous: ['Ps 85']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 87']
---
# Psalms 86

***




###### 1 

Bend down, O LORD, and hear my prayer; answer me, for I need your help. 



###### 2 

Protect me, for I am devoted to you. Save me, for I serve you and trust you. You are my God. 



###### 3 

Be merciful to me, O Lord, for I am calling on you constantly. 



###### 4 

Give me happiness, O Lord, for I give myself to you. 



###### 5 

O Lord, you are so good, so ready to forgive, so full of unfailing love for all who ask for your help. 



###### 6 

Listen closely to my prayer, O LORD; hear my urgent cry. 



###### 7 

I will call to you whenever I'm in trouble, and you will answer me. 



###### 8 

No pagan god is like you, O Lord. None can do what you do! 



###### 9 

All the nations you made will come and bow before you, Lord; they will praise your holy name. 



###### 10 

For you are great and perform wonderful deeds. You alone are God. 



###### 11 

Teach me your ways, O LORD, that I may live according to your truth! Grant me purity of heart, so that I may honor you. 



###### 12 

With all my heart I will praise you, O Lord my God. I will give glory to your name forever, 



###### 13 

for your love for me is very great. You have rescued me from the depths of death.[^a] 



###### 14 

O God, insolent people rise up against me; a violent gang is trying to kill me. You mean nothing to them. 



###### 15 

But you, O Lord, are a God of compassion and mercy, slow to get angry and filled with unfailing love and faithfulness. 



###### 16 

Look down and have mercy on me. Give your strength to your servant; save me, the son of your servant. 



###### 17 

Send me a sign of your favor. Then those who hate me will be put to shame, for you, O LORD, help and comfort me. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 86:13 Hebrew _of Sheol._
