---
Aliases: [Psalms 80]
previous: ['Ps 79']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 81']
---
# Psalms 80

***




###### 1 

Please listen, O Shepherd of Israel, you who lead Joseph's descendants like a flock. O God, enthroned above the cherubim, display your radiant glory 



###### 2 

to Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasseh. Show us your mighty power. Come to rescue us! 



###### 3 

Turn us again to yourself, O God. Make your face shine down upon us. Only then will we be saved. 



###### 4 

O LORD God of Heaven's Armies, how long will you be angry with our prayers? 



###### 5 

You have fed us with sorrow and made us drink tears by the bucketful. 



###### 6 

You have made us the scorn[^a] of neighboring nations. Our enemies treat us as a joke. 



###### 7 

Turn us again to yourself, O God of Heaven's Armies. Make your face shine down upon us. Only then will we be saved. 



###### 8 

You brought us from Egypt like a grapevine; you drove away the pagan nations and transplanted us into your land. 



###### 9 

You cleared the ground for us, and we took root and filled the land. 



###### 10 

Our shade covered the mountains; our branches covered the mighty cedars. 



###### 11 

We spread our branches west to the Mediterranean Sea; our shoots spread east to the Euphrates River.[^b] 



###### 12 

But now, why have you broken down our walls so that all who pass by may steal our fruit? 



###### 13 

The wild boar from the forest devours it, and the wild animals feed on it. 



###### 14 

Come back, we beg you, O God of Heaven's Armies. Look down from heaven and see our plight. Take care of this grapevine 



###### 15 

that you yourself have planted, this son you have raised for yourself. 



###### 16 

For we are chopped up and burned by our enemies. May they perish at the sight of your frown. 



###### 17 

Strengthen the man you love, the son of your choice. 



###### 18 

Then we will never abandon you again. Revive us so we can call on your name once more. 



###### 19 

Turn us again to yourself, O LORD God of Heaven's Armies. Make your face shine down upon us. Only then will we be saved. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 80:6 As in Syriac version; Hebrew reads _the strife._ [^b]: 80:11 Hebrew _west to the sea, . . . east to the river._
