---
Aliases: [Psalms 91]
previous: ['Ps 90']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 92']
---
# Psalms 91

***




###### 1 

Those who live in the shelter of the Most High will find rest in the shadow of the Almighty. 



###### 2 

This I declare about the LORD: He alone is my refuge, my place of safety; he is my God, and I trust him. 



###### 3 

For he will rescue you from every trap and protect you from deadly disease. 



###### 4 

He will cover you with his feathers. He will shelter you with his wings. His faithful promises are your armor and protection. 



###### 5 

Do not be afraid of the terrors of the night, nor the arrow that flies in the day. 



###### 6 

Do not dread the disease that stalks in darkness, nor the disaster that strikes at midday. 



###### 7 

Though a thousand fall at your side, though ten thousand are dying around you, these evils will not touch you. 



###### 8 

Just open your eyes, and see how the wicked are punished. 



###### 9 

If you make the LORD your refuge, if you make the Most High your shelter, 



###### 10 

no evil will conquer you; no plague will come near your home. 



###### 11 

For he will order his angels to protect you wherever you go. 



###### 12 

They will hold you up with their hands so you won't even hurt your foot on a stone. 



###### 13 

You will trample upon lions and cobras; you will crush fierce lions and serpents under your feet! 



###### 14 

The LORD says, "I will rescue those who love me. I will protect those who trust in my name. 



###### 15 

When they call on me, I will answer; I will be with them in trouble. I will rescue and honor them. 



###### 16 

I will reward them with a long life and give them my salvation." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
