---
Aliases: [Psalms 97]
previous: ['Ps 96']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 98']
---
# Psalms 97

***




###### 1 

The LORD is king! Let the earth rejoice! Let the farthest coastlands be glad. 



###### 2 

Dark clouds surround him. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne. 



###### 3 

Fire spreads ahead of him and burns up all his foes. 



###### 4 

His lightning flashes out across the world. The earth sees and trembles. 



###### 5 

The mountains melt like wax before the LORD, before the Lord of all the earth. 



###### 6 

The heavens proclaim his righteousness; every nation sees his glory. 



###### 7 

Those who worship idols are disgraced-- all who brag about their worthless gods-- for every god must bow to him. 



###### 8 

Jerusalem[^a] has heard and rejoiced, and all the towns of Judah are glad because of your justice, O LORD! 



###### 9 

For you, O LORD, are supreme over all the earth; you are exalted far above all gods. 



###### 10 

You who love the LORD, hate evil! He protects the lives of his godly people and rescues them from the power of the wicked. 



###### 11 

Light shines on the godly, and joy on those whose hearts are right. 



###### 12 

May all who are godly rejoice in the LORD and praise his holy name! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 97:8 Hebrew _Zion._
