---
Aliases: [Psalms 94]
previous: ['Ps 93']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 95']
---
# Psalms 94

***




###### 1 

O LORD, the God of vengeance, O God of vengeance, let your glorious justice shine forth! 



###### 2 

Arise, O Judge of the earth. Give the proud what they deserve. 



###### 3 

How long, O LORD? How long will the wicked be allowed to gloat? 



###### 4 

How long will they speak with arrogance? How long will these evil people boast? 



###### 5 

They crush your people, LORD, hurting those you claim as your own. 



###### 6 

They kill widows and foreigners and murder orphans. 



###### 7 

"The LORD isn't looking," they say, "and besides, the God of Israel[^a] doesn't care." 



###### 8 

Think again, you fools! When will you finally catch on? 



###### 9 

Is he deaf--the one who made your ears? Is he blind--the one who formed your eyes? 



###### 10 

He punishes the nations--won't he also punish you? He knows everything--doesn't he also know what you are doing? 



###### 11 

The LORD knows people's thoughts; he knows they are worthless! 



###### 12 

Joyful are those you discipline, LORD, those you teach with your instructions. 



###### 13 

You give them relief from troubled times until a pit is dug to capture the wicked. 



###### 14 

The LORD will not reject his people; he will not abandon his special possession. 



###### 15 

Judgment will again be founded on justice, and those with virtuous hearts will pursue it. 



###### 16 

Who will protect me from the wicked? Who will stand up for me against evildoers? 



###### 17 

Unless the LORD had helped me, I would soon have settled in the silence of the grave. 



###### 18 

I cried out, "I am slipping!" but your unfailing love, O LORD, supported me. 



###### 19 

When doubts filled my mind, your comfort gave me renewed hope and cheer. 



###### 20 

Can unjust leaders claim that God is on their side-- leaders whose decrees permit injustice? 



###### 21 

They gang up against the righteous and condemn the innocent to death. 



###### 22 

But the LORD is my fortress; my God is the mighty rock where I hide. 



###### 23 

God will turn the sins of evil people back on them. He will destroy them for their sins. The LORD our God will destroy them. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 94:7 Hebrew _of Jacob._ See note on [44:4].
