---
Aliases: [Psalms 95]
previous: ['Ps 94']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 96']
---
# Psalms 95

***




###### 1 

Come, let us sing to the LORD! Let us shout joyfully to the Rock of our salvation. 



###### 2 

Let us come to him with thanksgiving. Let us sing psalms of praise to him. 



###### 3 

For the LORD is a great God, a great King above all gods. 



###### 4 

He holds in his hands the depths of the earth and the mightiest mountains. 



###### 5 

The sea belongs to him, for he made it. His hands formed the dry land, too. 



###### 6 

Come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the LORD our maker, 



###### 7 

for he is our God. We are the people he watches over, the flock under his care. If only you would listen to his voice today! 



###### 8 

The LORD says, "Don't harden your hearts as Israel did at Meribah, as they did at Massah in the wilderness. 



###### 9 

For there your ancestors tested and tried my patience, even though they saw everything I did. 



###### 10 

For forty years I was angry with them, and I said, 'They are a people whose hearts turn away from me. They refuse to do what I tell them.' 



###### 11 

So in my anger I took an oath: 'They will never enter my place of rest.'" ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
