---
Aliases: [Psalms 98]
previous: ['Ps 97']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 99']
---
# Psalms 98

***




###### 1 

Sing a new song to the LORD, for he has done wonderful deeds. His right hand has won a mighty victory; his holy arm has shown his saving power! 



###### 2 

The LORD has announced his victory and has revealed his righteousness to every nation! 



###### 3 

He has remembered his promise to love and be faithful to Israel. The ends of the earth have seen the victory of our God. 



###### 4 

Shout to the LORD, all the earth; break out in praise and sing for joy! 



###### 5 

Sing your praise to the LORD with the harp, with the harp and melodious song, 



###### 6 

with trumpets and the sound of the ram's horn. Make a joyful symphony before the LORD, the King! 



###### 7 

Let the sea and everything in it shout his praise! Let the earth and all living things join in. 



###### 8 

Let the rivers clap their hands in glee! Let the hills sing out their songs of joy 



###### 9 

before the LORD, for he is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the world with justice, and the nations with fairness. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
