---
Aliases: [Psalms 92]
previous: ['Ps 91']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 93']
---
# Psalms 92

***




###### 1 

It is good to give thanks to the LORD, to sing praises to the Most High. 



###### 2 

It is good to proclaim your unfailing love in the morning, your faithfulness in the evening, 



###### 3 

accompanied by a ten-stringed instrument, a harp, and the melody of a lyre. 



###### 4 

You thrill me, LORD, with all you have done for me! I sing for joy because of what you have done. 



###### 5 

O LORD, what great works you do! And how deep are your thoughts. 



###### 6 

Only a simpleton would not know, and only a fool would not understand this: 



###### 7 

Though the wicked sprout like weeds and evildoers flourish, they will be destroyed forever. 



###### 8 

But you, O LORD, will be exalted forever. 



###### 9 

Your enemies, LORD, will surely perish; all evildoers will be scattered. 



###### 10 

But you have made me as strong as a wild ox. You have anointed me with the finest oil. 



###### 11 

My eyes have seen the downfall of my enemies; my ears have heard the defeat of my wicked opponents. 



###### 12 

But the godly will flourish like palm trees and grow strong like the cedars of Lebanon. 



###### 13 

For they are transplanted to the LORD's own house. They flourish in the courts of our God. 



###### 14 

Even in old age they will still produce fruit; they will remain vital and green. 



###### 15 

They will declare, "The LORD is just! He is my rock! There is no evil in him!" ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
