---
Aliases: [Psalms 96]
previous: ['Ps 95']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 97']
---
# Psalms 96

***




###### 1 

Sing a new song to the LORD! Let the whole earth sing to the LORD! 



###### 2 

Sing to the LORD; praise his name. Each day proclaim the good news that he saves. 



###### 3 

Publish his glorious deeds among the nations. Tell everyone about the amazing things he does. 



###### 4 

Great is the LORD! He is most worthy of praise! He is to be feared above all gods. 



###### 5 

The gods of other nations are mere idols, but the LORD made the heavens! 



###### 6 

Honor and majesty surround him; strength and beauty fill his sanctuary. 



###### 7 

O nations of the world, recognize the LORD; recognize that the LORD is glorious and strong. 



###### 8 

Give to the LORD the glory he deserves! Bring your offering and come into his courts. 



###### 9 

Worship the LORD in all his holy splendor. Let all the earth tremble before him. 



###### 10 

Tell all the nations, "The LORD reigns!" The world stands firm and cannot be shaken. He will judge all peoples fairly. 



###### 11 

Let the heavens be glad, and the earth rejoice! Let the sea and everything in it shout his praise! 



###### 12 

Let the fields and their crops burst out with joy! Let the trees of the forest sing for joy 



###### 13 

before the LORD, for he is coming! He is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the world with justice, and the nations with his truth. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
