---
Aliases: [Psalms 90]
previous: ['Ps 89']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 91']
---
# Psalms 90

***




###### 1 

Lord, through all the generations you have been our home! 



###### 2 

Before the mountains were born, before you gave birth to the earth and the world, from beginning to end, you are God. 



###### 3 

You turn people back to dust, saying, "Return to dust, you mortals!" 



###### 4 

For you, a thousand years are as a passing day, as brief as a few night hours. 



###### 5 

You sweep people away like dreams that disappear. They are like grass that springs up in the morning. 



###### 6 

In the morning it blooms and flourishes, but by evening it is dry and withered. 



###### 7 

We wither beneath your anger; we are overwhelmed by your fury. 



###### 8 

You spread out our sins before you-- our secret sins--and you see them all. 



###### 9 

We live our lives beneath your wrath, ending our years with a groan. 



###### 10 

Seventy years are given to us! Some even live to eighty. But even the best years are filled with pain and trouble; soon they disappear, and we fly away. 



###### 11 

Who can comprehend the power of your anger? Your wrath is as awesome as the fear you deserve. 



###### 12 

Teach us to realize the brevity of life, so that we may grow in wisdom. 



###### 13 

O LORD, come back to us! How long will you delay? Take pity on your servants! 



###### 14 

Satisfy us each morning with your unfailing love, so we may sing for joy to the end of our lives. 



###### 15 

Give us gladness in proportion to our former misery! Replace the evil years with good. 



###### 16 

Let us, your servants, see you work again; let our children see your glory. 



###### 17 

And may the Lord our God show us his approval and make our efforts successful. Yes, make our efforts successful! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
