---
Aliases: [Psalms 99]
previous: ['Ps 98']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 100']
---
# Psalms 99

***




###### 1 

The LORD is king! Let the nations tremble! He sits on his throne between the cherubim. Let the whole earth quake! 



###### 2 

The LORD sits in majesty in Jerusalem,[^a] exalted above all the nations. 



###### 3 

Let them praise your great and awesome name. Your name is holy! 



###### 4 

Mighty King, lover of justice, you have established fairness. You have acted with justice and righteousness throughout Israel.[^b] 



###### 5 

Exalt the LORD our God! Bow low before his feet, for he is holy! 



###### 6 

Moses and Aaron were among his priests; Samuel also called on his name. They cried to the LORD for help, and he answered them. 



###### 7 

He spoke to Israel from the pillar of cloud, and they followed the laws and decrees he gave them. 



###### 8 

O LORD our God, you answered them. You were a forgiving God to them, but you punished them when they went wrong. 



###### 9 

Exalt the LORD our God, and worship at his holy mountain in Jerusalem, for the LORD our God is holy! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 99:2 Hebrew _Zion._ [^b]: 99:4 Hebrew _Jacob._ See note on [44:4].
