---
Aliases: [2 Kings 24]
previous: ['2 Kgs 23']
up: ['2 Kings']
next: ['2 Kgs 25']
---
# 2 Kings 24

***




###### 1 

During Jehoiakim's reign, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon invaded the land of Judah. Jehoiakim surrendered and paid him tribute for three years but then rebelled. 



###### 2 

Then the LORD sent bands of Babylonian,[^a] Aramean, Moabite, and Ammonite raiders against Judah to destroy it, just as the LORD had promised through his prophets. 



###### 3 

These disasters happened to Judah because of the LORD's command. He had decided to banish Judah from his presence because of the many sins of Manasseh, 



###### 4 

who had filled Jerusalem with innocent blood. The LORD would not forgive this. 



###### 5 

The rest of the events in Jehoiakim's reign and all his deeds are recorded in _The Book of the History of the Kings of Judah._ 



###### 6 

When Jehoiakim died, his son Jehoiachin became the next king. 



###### 7 

The king of Egypt did not venture out of his country after that, for the king of Babylon captured the entire area formerly claimed by Egypt--from the Brook of Egypt to the Euphrates River. ## Jehoiachin Rules in Judah 



###### 8 

Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem three months. His mother was Nehushta, the daughter of Elnathan from Jerusalem. 



###### 9 

Jehoiachin did what was evil in the LORD's sight, just as his father had done. 



###### 10 

During Jehoiachin's reign, the officers of King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon came up against Jerusalem and besieged it. 



###### 11 

Nebuchadnezzar himself arrived at the city during the siege. 



###### 12 

Then King Jehoiachin, along with the queen mother, his advisers, his commanders, and his officials, surrendered to the Babylonians. In the eighth year of Nebuchadnezzar's reign, he took Jehoiachin prisoner. 



###### 13 

As the LORD had said beforehand, Nebuchadnezzar carried away all the treasures from the LORD's Temple and the royal palace. He stripped away[^b] all the gold objects that King Solomon of Israel had placed in the Temple. 



###### 14 

King Nebuchadnezzar took all of Jerusalem captive, including all the commanders and the best of the soldiers, craftsmen, and artisans--10,000 in all. Only the poorest people were left in the land. 



###### 15 

Nebuchadnezzar led King Jehoiachin away as a captive to Babylon, along with the queen mother, his wives and officials, and all Jerusalem's elite. 



###### 16 

He also exiled 7,000 of the best troops and 1,000 craftsmen and artisans, all of whom were strong and fit for war. 



###### 17 

Then the king of Babylon installed Mattaniah, Jehoiachin's[^c] uncle, as the next king, and he changed Mattaniah's name to Zedekiah. ## Zedekiah Rules in Judah 



###### 18 

Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem eleven years. His mother was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah from Libnah. 



###### 19 

But Zedekiah did what was evil in the LORD's sight, just as Jehoiakim had done. 



###### 20 

These things happened because of the LORD's anger against the people of Jerusalem and Judah, until he finally banished them from his presence and sent them into exile. ## The Fall of Jerusalem Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 24:2 Or _Chaldean._ [^b]: 24:13 Or _He cut apart._ [^c]: 24:17 Hebrew _his._
