---
Aliases: [Psalms 19]
previous: ['Ps 18']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 20']
---
# Psalms 19

***








###### 1 



The heavens tell of the glory of God; And their expanse declares the work of His hands. 







###### 2 



Day to day pours forth speech, And night to night reveals knowledge. 







###### 3 



There is no speech, nor are there words; Their voice is not heard. 







###### 4 



Their [^a]line has gone out into all the earth, And their words to the end of the world. In them He has placed a tent for the sun, 







###### 5 



Which is like a groom coming out of his chamber; It rejoices like a strong person to run his course. 







###### 6 



Its rising is from [^b]one end of the heavens, And its circuit to the [^c]other end of them; And there is nothing hidden from its heat. 







###### 7 



The Law of the LORD is [^d]perfect, restoring the soul; The testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple. 







###### 8 



The precepts of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart; The commandment of the LORD is pure, enlightening the eyes. 







###### 9 



The fear of the LORD is clean, enduring forever; The judgments of the LORD are true; they are righteous altogether. 







###### 10 



They are more desirable than gold, yes, than much pure gold; Sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb. 







###### 11 



Moreover, Your servant is warned by them; In keeping them there is great reward. 







###### 12 



Who can discern _his_ errors? Acquit me of hidden _faults_. 







###### 13 



Also keep Your servant back from presumptuous _sins_; Let them not rule over me; Then I will be innocent, And I will be blameless of great wrongdoing. 







###### 14 



May the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart Be acceptable in Your sight, LORD, my rock and my Redeemer. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 19:4 Another reading is _sound_ [^b]: Psalm 19:6 Lit _the end_ [^c]: Psalm 19:6 Lit _the ends_ [^d]: Psalm 19:7 I.e., blameless
