---
Aliases: [Psalms 17]
previous: ['Ps 16']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 18']
---
# Psalms 17

***








###### 1 



Hear a just cause, LORD, give _Your_ attention to my cry; Listen to my prayer, which is not from deceitful lips. 







###### 2 



Let my [^a]judgment come forth from Your presence; Let Your eyes look with integrity. 







###### 3 



You have put my heart to the test; You have visited _me_ by night; You have sifted me and You find [^b]nothing; My intent is that my mouth will not offend. 







###### 4 



As for the works of mankind, by the word of Your lips I have kept from the ways of the violent. 







###### 5 



My steps have held to Your [^c]paths. My feet have not slipped. 







###### 6 



I have called upon You, for You will answer me, God; Incline Your ear to me, hear my speech. 







###### 7 



Show Your wonderful faithfulness, Savior of those who take refuge [^d]at Your right hand From those who rise up _against them_. 







###### 8 



Keep me as [^e]the apple of the eye; Hide me in the shadow of Your wings 







###### 9 



From the wicked who deal violently with me, My deadly enemies who surround me. 







###### 10 



They have closed their [^f]unfeeling _hearts_, With their mouths they speak proudly. 







###### 11 



They have now surrounded us in our steps; They set their eyes to cast _us_ down to the ground. 







###### 12 



He is like a lion that is eager to tear, And as a young lion lurking in secret places. 







###### 13 



Arise, LORD, confront him, make him bow down; Save my soul from the wicked with Your sword, 







###### 14 



From people by Your hand, LORD, From people [^g]of the world, whose portion is in _this_ life, And whose belly You fill with Your treasure; They are satisfied with children, And leave their abundance to their babies. 







###### 15 



As for me, I shall behold Your face in righteousness; I shall be satisfied with Your likeness when I awake. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 17:2 I.e., vindication [^b]: Psalm 17:3 Or _no shameful act in me; My mouth_ [^c]: Psalm 17:5 Lit _tracks_ [^d]: Psalm 17:7 Or _from those who rise up...at Your right hand_ [^e]: Psalm 17:8 Lit _the pupil, the daughter of the eye_ [^f]: Psalm 17:10 Lit _fat_ [^g]: Psalm 17:14 Or _whose portion in life is of the world_
