---
Aliases: [Psalms 119]
previous: ['Ps 118']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 120']
---
# Psalms 119

***








###### 1 



Blessed are those whose way is [^a]blameless, Who walk in the Law of the LORD. 







###### 2 



Blessed are those who comply with His [^b]testimonies, _And_ seek Him with all _their_ heart. 







###### 3 



They also do no injustice; They walk in His ways. 







###### 4 



You have [^c]ordained Your precepts, [^d]That we are to keep _them_ diligently. 







###### 5 



Oh that my ways may be established To keep Your statutes! 







###### 6 



Then I will not be ashamed When I look at all Your commandments. 







###### 7 



I will give thanks to You with uprightness of heart, When I learn Your righteous judgments. 







###### 8 



I will keep Your statutes; Do not utterly abandon me! 







###### 9 



How can a young man keep his way pure? By keeping _it_ according to Your word. 







###### 10 



With all my heart I have sought You; Do not let me wander from Your commandments. 







###### 11 



I have treasured Your word in my heart, So that I may not sin against You. 







###### 12 



Blessed are You, LORD; Teach me Your statutes. 







###### 13 



With my lips I have told of All the ordinances of Your mouth. 







###### 14 



I have rejoiced in the way of Your testimonies, [^e]As much as in all riches. 







###### 15 



I will meditate on Your precepts And [^f]regard Your ways. 







###### 16 



I shall [^g]delight in Your statutes; I will not forget Your word. 







###### 17 



Deal _generously_ with Your servant, That I may live and keep Your word. 







###### 18 



Open my eyes, that I may behold Wonderful things from Your Law. 







###### 19 



I am a stranger on the earth; Do not hide Your commandments from me. 







###### 20 



My soul is crushed [^h]with longing For Your ordinances at all times. 







###### 21 



You rebuke the arrogant, [^i]the cursed, Who wander from Your commandments. 







###### 22 



Take disgrace and contempt away from me, For I comply with Your testimonies. 







###### 23 



Even though rulers sit _and_ speak against me, Your servant meditates on Your statutes. 







###### 24 



Your testimonies also are my delight; _They are_ [^j]my advisers. 







###### 25 



My soul clings to the dust; Revive me according to Your word. 







###### 26 



I have told of my ways, and You have answered me; Teach me Your statutes. 







###### 27 



Make me understand the way of Your precepts, And I will meditate on Your wonders. 







###### 28 



My soul [^k]weeps because of grief; Strengthen me according to Your word. 







###### 29 



Remove the false way from me, And graciously grant me Your Law. 







###### 30 



I have chosen the faithful way; I have [^l]placed Your judgments _before me_. 







###### 31 



I cling to Your testimonies; LORD, do not put me to shame! 







###### 32 



I shall run the way of Your commandments, For You will enlarge my heart. 







###### 33 



Teach me, the way of Your statutes, LORD, And I shall comply with it to the end. 







###### 34 



Give me understanding, so that I may comply with Your Law And keep it with all _my_ heart. 







###### 35 



Make me walk in the path of Your commandments, For I delight in it. 







###### 36 



Incline my heart to Your testimonies, And not to _dishonest_ gain. 







###### 37 



Turn my eyes away from looking at what is worthless, And revive me in Your ways. 







###### 38 



Establish Your [^m]word to Your servant [^n]As that which produces reverence for You. 







###### 39 



Take away my disgrace which I dread, For Your judgments are good. 







###### 40 



Behold, I long for Your precepts; Revive me through Your righteousness. 







###### 41 



May Your favor also come to me, LORD, Your salvation according to Your [^o]word; 







###### 42 



So that I will have an answer for one who taunts me, For I trust in Your word. 







###### 43 



And do not take the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, For I [^p]wait for Your judgments. 







###### 44 



So I will keep Your Law continually, Forever and ever. 







###### 45 



And I will walk [^q]at liberty, For I seek Your precepts. 







###### 46 



I will also speak of Your testimonies before kings And shall not be ashamed. 







###### 47 



I will delight in Your commandments, Which I love. 







###### 48 



And I shall lift up my hands to Your commandments, Which I love; And I will meditate on Your statutes. 







###### 49 



Remember the word to Your servant, [^r]In which You have made me hope. 







###### 50 



This is my comfort in my misery, That Your word has [^s]revived me. 







###### 51 



The arrogant utterly deride me, _Yet_ I do not turn aside from Your Law. 







###### 52 



I have remembered Your judgments from [^t]of old, LORD, And comfort myself. 







###### 53 



Burning indignation has seized me because of the wicked, Who abandon Your Law. 







###### 54 



Your statutes are my songs In the house of my pilgrimage. 







###### 55 



LORD, I remember Your name in the night, And keep Your Law. 







###### 56 



This has become mine, [^u]That I comply with Your precepts. 







###### 57 



The LORD is my portion; I have [^v]promised to keep Your words. 







###### 58 



I sought Your favor with all _my_ heart; Be gracious to me according to Your [^w]word. 







###### 59 



I considered my ways And turned my feet to Your testimonies. 







###### 60 



I hurried and did not delay To keep Your commandments. 







###### 61 



The snares of the wicked have surrounded me, _But_ I have not forgotten Your Law. 







###### 62 



At midnight I will rise to give thanks to You Because of Your righteous judgments. 







###### 63 



I am a companion to all those who [^x]fear You, And to those who keep Your precepts. 







###### 64 



The earth is full of Your goodness, LORD; Teach me Your statutes. 







###### 65 



You have treated Your servant well, LORD, according to Your word. 







###### 66 



Teach me good [^y]discernment and knowledge, For I believe in Your commandments. 







###### 67 



Before I was afflicted I went astray, But now I keep Your word. 







###### 68 



You are good and You do good; Teach me Your statutes. 







###### 69 



The arrogant [^z]have forged a lie against me; With all _my_ heart I will comply with Your precepts. 







###### 70 



Their heart is insensitive, like fat, _But_ I delight in Your Law. 







###### 71 



It is good for me that I was afflicted, So that I may learn Your statutes. 







###### 72 



The Law of Your mouth is better to me Than thousands of gold and silver _pieces_. 







###### 73 



Your hands made me and [^aa]fashioned me; Give me understanding, so that I may learn Your commandments. 







###### 74 



May those who [^ab]fear You see me and be glad, Because I [^ac]wait for Your word. 







###### 75 



I know, LORD, that Your judgments are righteous, And that You have afflicted me in faithfulness. 







###### 76 



May Your favor [^ad]comfort me, According to Your [^ae]word to Your servant. 







###### 77 



May Your compassion come to me so that I may live, For Your Law is my delight. 







###### 78 



May the arrogant be put to shame, because they lead me astray with a lie; _But_ I shall meditate on Your precepts. 







###### 79 



May those who [^af]fear You turn to me, And those who know Your testimonies. 







###### 80 



May my heart be [^ag]blameless in Your statutes, So that I will not be ashamed. 







###### 81 



My soul languishes for Your salvation; I [^ah]wait for Your word. 







###### 82 



My eyes fail _with longing_ for Your [^ai]word, [^aj]While I say, "When will You comfort me?" 







###### 83 



Though I have become like a wineskin in the smoke, I do not forget Your statutes. 







###### 84 



How many are the days of Your servant? When will You execute judgment on those who persecute me? 







###### 85 



The arrogant have dug pits for me, _People_ who are not in accord with Your Law. 







###### 86 



All Your commandments are faithful; They have persecuted me with a lie; help me! 







###### 87 



They almost destroyed me on earth, But as for me, I did not abandon Your precepts. 







###### 88 



Revive me according to Your faithfulness, So that I may keep the testimony of Your mouth. 







###### 89 



Forever, LORD, Your word stands in heaven. 







###### 90 



Your faithfulness _continues_ [^ak]throughout generations; You established the earth, and it stands. 







###### 91 



They stand this day by Your ordinances, For all things are Your servants. 







###### 92 



If Your Law had not been my delight, Then I would have perished in my misery. 







###### 93 



I will never forget Your precepts, For by them You have [^al]revived me. 







###### 94 



I am Yours, save me; For I have sought Your precepts. 







###### 95 



The wicked wait for me to destroy me; I will diligently consider Your testimonies. 







###### 96 



I have seen [^am]a limit to all perfection; Your commandment is exceedingly broad. 







###### 97 



How I love Your Law! It is my meditation all the day. 







###### 98 



Your commandments make me wiser than my enemies, For they are ever [^an]mine. 







###### 99 



I have more insight than all my teachers, For Your testimonies are my meditation. 







###### 100 



I understand more than those who are old, Because I have complied with Your precepts. 







###### 101 



I have restrained my feet from every evil way, So that I may keep Your word. 







###### 102 



I have not turned aside from Your judgments, For You Yourself have taught me. 







###### 103 



How sweet are Your [^ao]words to my [^ap]taste! _Yes, sweeter_ than honey to my mouth! 







###### 104 



From Your precepts I get understanding; Therefore I hate every false way. 







###### 105 



Your word is a lamp to my feet And a light to my path. 







###### 106 



I have sworn and I will confirm it, That I will keep Your righteous judgments. 







###### 107 



I am exceedingly afflicted; [^aq]Revive me, LORD, according to Your word. 







###### 108 



Be pleased to accept the [^ar]voluntary offerings of my mouth, LORD, And teach me Your judgments. 







###### 109 



My [^as]life is continually [^at]in my hand, Yet I do not forget Your Law. 







###### 110 



The wicked have set a [^au]trap for me, Yet I have not wandered from Your precepts. 







###### 111 



I have inherited Your testimonies forever, For they are the joy of my heart. 







###### 112 



I have inclined my heart to perform Your statutes Forever, _even_ to the end. 







###### 113 



I hate those who are double-minded, But I love Your Law. 







###### 114 



You are my hiding place and my shield; I [^av]wait for Your word. 







###### 115 



Leave me, you evildoers, So that I may comply with the commandments of my God. 







###### 116 



Sustain me according to Your [^aw]word, that I may live; And do not let me be [^ax]ashamed of my hope. 







###### 117 



Sustain me so that I may be safe, That I may have regard for Your statutes continually. 







###### 118 



You have [^ay]rejected all those who stray from Your statutes, For their deceitfulness is [^az]useless. 







###### 119 



You have [^ba]removed all the wicked of the earth _like_ [^bb]impurities; Therefore I love Your testimonies. 







###### 120 



My flesh [^bc]trembles from the fear of You, And I am afraid of Your judgments. 







###### 121 



I have done justice and righteousness; Do not leave me to my oppressors. 







###### 122 



Be a guarantor for Your servant for good; Do not let the arrogant oppress me. 







###### 123 



My eyes fail _with longing_ for Your salvation, And for Your righteous [^bd]word. 







###### 124 



Deal with Your servant according to Your graciousness, And teach me Your statutes. 







###### 125 



I am Your servant; give me understanding, So that I may know Your testimonies. 







###### 126 



It is time for the LORD to act, _For_ they have broken Your Law. 







###### 127 



Therefore I love Your commandments Above gold, yes, above pure gold. 







###### 128 



Therefore I carefully follow all _Your_ precepts concerning everything, I hate every false way. 







###### 129 



Your testimonies are wonderful; Therefore my soul complies with them. 







###### 130 



The unfolding of Your words gives light; It gives understanding to the simple. 







###### 131 



I opened my mouth wide and panted, For I longed for Your commandments. 







###### 132 



Turn to me and be gracious to me, As is right for those who love Your name. 







###### 133 



Establish my footsteps in Your [^be]word, And do not let any [^bf]wrongdoing have power over me. 







###### 134 



Redeem me from oppression by man, So that I may keep Your precepts. 







###### 135 



Make Your face shine upon Your servant, And teach me Your statutes. 







###### 136 



My eyes [^bg]shed streams of water, Because they do not keep Your Law. 







###### 137 



You are righteous, LORD, And Your judgments are right. 







###### 138 



You have commanded Your testimonies in righteousness And great faithfulness. 







###### 139 



My zeal has [^bh]consumed me, Because my enemies have forgotten Your words. 







###### 140 



Your word is very [^bi]pure, Therefore Your servant loves it. 







###### 141 



I am small and despised, _Yet_ I do not forget Your precepts. 







###### 142 



Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, And Your Law is truth. 







###### 143 



Trouble and anguish have [^bj]come upon me, _Yet_ Your commandments are my delight. 







###### 144 



Your testimonies are righteous forever; Give me understanding that I may live. 







###### 145 



I cried out with all my heart; answer me, LORD! I will comply with Your statutes. 







###### 146 



I cried to You; save me And I shall keep Your testimonies. 







###### 147 



I [^bk]rise before dawn and cry for help; I [^bl]wait for Your words. 







###### 148 



My eyes anticipate the night watches, So that I may meditate on Your [^bm]word. 







###### 149 



Hear my voice according to Your faithfulness; Revive me, LORD, according to Your judgments. 







###### 150 



Those who follow after wickedness approach; They are far from Your Law. 







###### 151 



You are near, LORD, And all Your commandments are truth. 







###### 152 



From long ago I have known from Your testimonies That You have founded them forever. 







###### 153 



Look at my affliction and rescue me, For I have not forgotten Your Law. 







###### 154 



Plead my cause and redeem me; Revive me according to Your [^bn]word. 







###### 155 



Salvation is far from the wicked, For they do not seek Your statutes. 







###### 156 



[^bo]Great are Your mercies, LORD; Revive me according to Your judgments. 







###### 157 



Many are my persecutors and my enemies, _Yet_ I do not turn aside from Your testimonies. 







###### 158 



I see the treacherous and loathe _them_, Because they do not keep Your word. 







###### 159 



Consider how I love Your precepts; Revive me, LORD, according to Your faithfulness. 







###### 160 



The sum of Your word is truth, And every one of Your righteous judgments is everlasting. 







###### 161 



Rulers persecute me without cause, But my heart stands in awe of Your words. 







###### 162 



I rejoice at Your [^bp]word, Like one who finds great plunder. 







###### 163 



I hate and loathe falsehood, _But_ I love Your Law. 







###### 164 



Seven times a day I praise You Because of Your righteous judgments. 







###### 165 



Those who love Your Law have great peace, And [^bq]nothing causes them to stumble. 







###### 166 



I hope for Your salvation, LORD, And do Your commandments. 







###### 167 



My soul keeps Your testimonies, And I love them exceedingly. 







###### 168 



I keep Your precepts and Your testimonies, For all my ways are before You. 







###### 169 



Let my cry [^br]come before You, LORD; Give me understanding according to Your word. 







###### 170 



Let my pleading come before You; Save me according to Your [^bs]word. 







###### 171 



Let my lips pour out praise, For You teach me Your statutes. 







###### 172 



Let my tongue sing about Your [^bt]word, For all Your commandments are righteousness. 







###### 173 



Let Your hand be [^bu]ready to help me, For I have chosen Your precepts. 







###### 174 



I long for Your salvation, LORD, And Your Law is my delight. 







###### 175 



Let my soul live that it may praise You, And let Your ordinances help me. 







###### 176 



I have wandered about like a lost sheep; search for Your servant, For I do not forget Your commandments. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 119:1 Lit _complete_; or _having integrity_ [^b]: Psalm 119:2 Or _provisions_, and so throughout the Psalm [^c]: Psalm 119:4 Lit _commanded_ [^d]: Psalm 119:4 Lit _To keep_ [^e]: Psalm 119:14 Lit _As over all_ [^f]: Psalm 119:15 Or _look at_ [^g]: Psalm 119:16 Lit _delight myself_ [^h]: Psalm 119:20 Lit _for_ [^i]: Psalm 119:21 Or _Cursed are those who wander_... [^j]: Psalm 119:24 Lit _the men of my counsel_ [^k]: Psalm 119:28 Lit _drops_ [^l]: Psalm 119:30 Or _accounted Your ordinances worthy_ [^m]: Psalm 119:38 Or _promise_ [^n]: Psalm 119:38 Lit _Which is for the fear of You_ [^o]: Psalm 119:41 Or _promise_ [^p]: Psalm 119:43 Or _hope in_ [^q]: Psalm 119:45 Lit _in a wide place_ [^r]: Psalm 119:49 Lit _On_ [^s]: Psalm 119:50 Or _preserved me alive_ [^t]: Psalm 119:52 Or _everlasting_ [^u]: Psalm 119:56 Or _Because_ [^v]: Psalm 119:57 Lit _said that I would keep_ [^w]: Psalm 119:58 Or _promise_ [^x]: Psalm 119:63 Or _revere_ [^y]: Psalm 119:66 Or _judgment_ [^z]: Psalm 119:69 Lit _besmear me with lies_ [^aa]: Psalm 119:73 Lit _established_ [^ab]: Psalm 119:74 Or _revere_ [^ac]: Psalm 119:74 Or _hope in_ [^ad]: Psalm 119:76 Lit _be for my comfort_ [^ae]: Psalm 119:76 Or _promise_ [^af]: Psalm 119:79 Or _revere_ [^ag]: Psalm 119:80 Lit _complete_; or _having integrity_ [^ah]: Psalm 119:81 Or _hope in_ [^ai]: Psalm 119:82 Or _promise_ [^aj]: Psalm 119:82 Lit _Saying_ [^ak]: Psalm 119:90 Lit _to_ [^al]: Psalm 119:93 Or _kept me alive_ [^am]: Psalm 119:96 Lit _an end of_ [^an]: Psalm 119:98 Or _with me_ [^ao]: Psalm 119:103 Or _promises_ [^ap]: Psalm 119:103 Lit _palate_ [^aq]: Psalm 119:107 Or _Keep me alive_ [^ar]: Psalm 119:108 Or _freewill offerings_ [^as]: Psalm 119:109 Lit _soul_ [^at]: Psalm 119:109 I.e., in danger [^au]: Psalm 119:110 Lit _trapping net_ [^av]: Psalm 119:114 Or _hope in_ [^aw]: Psalm 119:116 Or _promise_ [^ax]: Psalm 119:116 Lit _put to shame because of_ [^ay]: Psalm 119:118 Lit _made light of_ [^az]: Psalm 119:118 Lit _falsehood_ [^ba]: Psalm 119:119 Lit _caused to cease_ [^bb]: Psalm 119:119 Lit _dross_ [^bc]: Psalm 119:120 Lit _bristles up from_ [^bd]: Psalm 119:123 Or _promise_ [^be]: Psalm 119:133 Or _promise_ [^bf]: Psalm 119:133 Or _injustice_ [^bg]: Psalm 119:136 Lit _run down_ [^bh]: Psalm 119:139 Lit _put an end to_ [^bi]: Psalm 119:140 Lit _refined_ [^bj]: Psalm 119:143 Lit _found me_ [^bk]: Psalm 119:147 Lit _anticipate the dawn_ [^bl]: Psalm 119:147 Or _hope in_ [^bm]: Psalm 119:148 Or _promise_ [^bn]: Psalm 119:154 Or _promise_ [^bo]: Psalm 119:156 Or _Many_ [^bp]: Psalm 119:162 Or _promise_ [^bq]: Psalm 119:165 Lit _they have no stumbling block_. [^br]: Psalm 119:169 Lit _come near before_ [^bs]: Psalm 119:170 Or _promise_ [^bt]: Psalm 119:172 Or _promise_ [^bu]: Psalm 119:173 Lit _to help me_
