---
Aliases: [Psalms 132]
previous: ['Ps 131']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 133']
---
# Psalms 132

***








###### 1 



Remember, LORD, in David's behalf, All his affliction; 







###### 2 



How he swore to the LORD _And_ vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob, 







###### 3 



"I certainly will not [^a]enter my house, Nor [^b]lie on my bed; 







###### 4 



I will not give sleep to my eyes Or slumber to my eyelids, 







###### 5 



Until I find a place for the LORD, [^c]A dwelling place for the Mighty One of Jacob." 







###### 6 



Behold, we heard _about_ it in Ephrathah, We found it in the field of [^d]Jaar. 







###### 7 



Let's go into His [^e]dwelling place; Let's worship at His footstool. 







###### 8 



Arise, LORD, to Your resting place, You and the ark of Your strength. 







###### 9 



May Your priests be clothed with righteousness, And may Your godly ones sing for joy. 







###### 10 



For the sake of Your servant David, Do not turn away the face of Your anointed. 







###### 11 



The LORD has sworn to David A truth from which He will not turn back: "I will set upon your throne _one_ from the fruit of your body. 







###### 12 



If your sons will keep My covenant And My testimony which I will teach them, Their sons also will sit upon your throne forever." 







###### 13 



For the LORD has chosen Zion; He has desired it as His dwelling place. 







###### 14 



"This is My resting place forever; Here I will dwell, for I have desired it. 







###### 15 



I will abundantly bless her food; I will satisfy her needy with bread. 







###### 16 



I will also clothe her priests with salvation, And her godly ones will sing aloud for joy. 







###### 17 



I will make the horn of David spring forth there; I have prepared a lamp for My anointed. 







###### 18 



I will clothe his enemies with shame, But upon himself his crown will gleam." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 132:3 Lit _come into the tabernacle of_ [^b]: Psalm 132:3 Lit _go up into the couch of_ [^c]: Psalm 132:5 Lit _Dwelling places_ [^d]: Psalm 132:6 Or _the wood_ [^e]: Psalm 132:7 Lit _dwelling places_
