---
Aliases: [Psalms 111]
previous: ['Ps 110']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 112']
---
# Psalms 111

***








###### 1 



[^a]Praise [^b]the LORD! I will give thanks to the LORD with all _my_ heart, In the company of the upright and in the assembly. 







###### 2 



Great are the works of the LORD; _They are_ [^c]studied by all who delight in them. 







###### 3 



[^d]Splendid and majestic is His work, And His righteousness endures forever. 







###### 4 



He has caused His [^e]wonders [^f]to be remembered; The LORD is gracious and compassionate. 







###### 5 



He has given [^g]food to those who [^h]fear Him; He will remember His covenant forever. 







###### 6 



He has made known to His people the power of His works, In giving them the inheritance of the nations. 







###### 7 



The works of His hands are [^i]truth and justice; All His precepts are trustworthy. 







###### 8 



They are upheld forever and ever; They are performed in [^j]truth and uprightness. 







###### 9 



He has sent redemption to His people; He has [^k]ordained His covenant forever; Holy and [^l]awesome is His name. 







###### 10 



The [^m]fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom; All those who [^n]follow His commandments have a good understanding; His praise endures forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 111:1 Or _Hallelujah! I will_ [^b]: Psalm 111:1 Heb _Yah_ [^c]: Psalm 111:2 Lit _sought out_ [^d]: Psalm 111:3 Lit _Splendor and majesty_ [^e]: Psalm 111:4 I.e., wonderful acts [^f]: Psalm 111:4 Lit _a memorial_ [^g]: Psalm 111:5 Lit _prey_ [^h]: Psalm 111:5 Or _revere_ [^i]: Psalm 111:7 Or _faithfulness_ [^j]: Psalm 111:8 Or _faithfulness_ [^k]: Psalm 111:9 Lit _commanded_ [^l]: Psalm 111:9 I.e., inspiring reverence [^m]: Psalm 111:10 Or _reverence for_ [^n]: Psalm 111:10 Lit _do them_
