---
Aliases: [Psalms 101]
previous: ['Ps 100']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 102']
---
# Psalms 101

***








###### 1 



I will sing of mercy and [^a]justice; To You, LORD, I will sing praises. 







###### 2 



I will carefully attend to the [^b]blameless way. When will You come to me? I will walk within my house in the [^c]integrity of my heart. 







###### 3 



I will set no worthless thing before my eyes; I hate the [^d]work of those who fall away; It shall not cling to me. 







###### 4 



A perverse heart shall leave me; I will know no evil. 







###### 5 



Whoever secretly slanders his neighbor, him I will [^e]destroy; I will not endure one who has a haughty look and an arrogant heart. 







###### 6 



My eyes shall be upon the faithful of the land, that they may dwell with me; One who walks in a [^f]blameless way is one who will serve me. 







###### 7 



One who practices deceit shall not dwell within my house; One who speaks lies shall not [^g]maintain his position before me. 







###### 8 



Every morning I will [^h]destroy all the wicked of the land, So as to eliminate from the city of the LORD all those who do injustice. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 101:1 Or _judgment_ [^b]: Psalm 101:2 Or _way of integrity_ [^c]: Psalm 101:2 Or _blamelessness_ [^d]: Psalm 101:3 Or _practice of apostasy_ [^e]: Psalm 101:5 Or _silence_ [^f]: Psalm 101:6 Or _way of integrity_ [^g]: Psalm 101:7 Lit _be established before my eyes_ [^h]: Psalm 101:8 Or _silence_
