---
Aliases: [Psalms 138]
previous: ['Ps 137']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 139']
---
# Psalms 138

***








###### 1 



I will give You thanks with all my heart; I will sing Your praises before the gods. 







###### 2 



I will bow down toward Your holy temple And give thanks to Your name for Your mercy and Your [^a]truth; For You have made Your [^b]word great [^c]according to all Your name. 







###### 3 



On the day I called, You answered me; You made me bold _with_ strength in my soul. 







###### 4 



All the kings of the earth will give thanks to You, LORD, When they have heard the words of Your mouth. 







###### 5 



And they will sing of the ways of the LORD, For great is the glory of the LORD. 







###### 6 



For the LORD is exalted, Yet He looks after the lowly, But He knows the haughty from afar. 







###### 7 



Though I walk in the midst of trouble, You will [^d]revive me; You will reach out with Your hand against the wrath of my enemies, And Your right hand will save me. 







###### 8 



The LORD will accomplish what concerns me; Your faithfulness, LORD, is everlasting; Do not abandon the works of Your hands. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 138:2 Or _faithfulness_ [^b]: Psalm 138:2 Or _promise_ [^c]: Psalm 138:2 Or _together with_ [^d]: Psalm 138:7 Or _keep me alive_
