---
Aliases: [Psalms 141]
previous: ['Ps 140']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 142']
---
# Psalms 141

***








###### 1 



LORD, I call upon You; hurry to me! Listen to my voice when I call to You! 







###### 2 



May my prayer be [^a]counted as incense before You; The raising of my hands as the evening offering. 







###### 3 



Set a guard, LORD, [^b]over my mouth; Keep watch over the door of my lips. 







###### 4 



Do not incline my heart to _any_ evil thing, To practice deeds [^c]of wickedness With people who do wrong; And may I not taste their delicacies. 







###### 5 



May the righteous strike me with mercy and discipline me; It is oil for the head; My head shall not refuse it, For my prayer is still against their evil deeds. 







###### 6 



Their judges are thrown down by the sides of the rock, And they hear my words, for they are pleasant. 







###### 7 



As when one plows and breaks open the earth, Our bones have been scattered at the mouth of [^d]Sheol. 







###### 8 



For my eyes are toward You, [^e]God, the Lord; In You I take refuge; do not [^f]leave me defenseless. 







###### 9 



Keep me from the [^g]jaws of the trap which they have set for me, And from the snares of those who do wrong. 







###### 10 



May the wicked fall into their own nets, While I pass by [^h]safely. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 141:2 Lit _fixed_ [^b]: Psalm 141:3 Lit _to_ [^c]: Psalm 141:4 Lit _in_ [^d]: Psalm 141:7 I.e., the netherworld [^e]: Psalm 141:8 Heb _YHWH_, usually rendered _Lord_ [^f]: Psalm 141:8 Lit _pour out my soul_ [^g]: Psalm 141:9 Lit _hands of the trap_ [^h]: Psalm 141:10 Lit _altogether_
