---
Aliases: [Psalms 103]
previous: ['Ps 102']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 104']
---
# Psalms 103

***








###### 1 



Bless the LORD, my soul, And all that is within me, _bless_ His holy name. 







###### 2 



Bless the LORD, my soul, And do not forget any of His benefits; 







###### 3 



Who pardons all your guilt, Who heals all your diseases; 







###### 4 



Who redeems your life from the pit, Who crowns you with favor and compassion; 







###### 5 



Who satisfies your [^a]years with good things, _So that_ your youth is renewed like the eagle. 







###### 6 



The LORD performs [^b]righteous deeds And judgments for all who are oppressed. 







###### 7 



He made known His ways to Moses, His deeds to the sons of Israel. 







###### 8 



The LORD is compassionate and gracious, Slow to anger and abounding in mercy. 







###### 9 



He will not always contend _with us_, Nor will He keep _His anger_ forever. 







###### 10 



He has not dealt with us according to our sins, Nor rewarded us according to our guilty deeds. 







###### 11 



For as high as the heavens are above the earth, So great is His mercy toward those who [^c]fear Him. 







###### 12 



As far as the east is from the west, So far has He removed our wrongdoings from us. 







###### 13 



Just as a father has compassion on _his_ children, So the LORD has compassion on those who [^d]fear Him. 







###### 14 



For He Himself knows [^e]our form; He is mindful that we are _nothing but_ dust. 







###### 15 



As for man, his days are like grass; Like a flower of the field, so he flourishes. 







###### 16 



When the wind has passed over it, it is no more, And its place no longer knows about it. 







###### 17 



But the [^f]mercy of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting for those who [^g]fear Him, And His justice to the children's children, 







###### 18 



To those who keep His covenant And remember His precepts, _so as_ to do them. 







###### 19 



The LORD has established His throne in the heavens, And His [^h]sovereignty rules over [^i]all. 







###### 20 



Bless the LORD, you His angels, Mighty in strength, who perform His word, Obeying the voice of His word! 







###### 21 



Bless the LORD, all you His [^j]angels, You who serve Him, doing His will. 







###### 22 



Bless the LORD, all you works of His, In all places of His dominion; Bless the LORD, my soul! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 103:5 Or _desire_ [^b]: Psalm 103:6 Or _deeds of vindication_ [^c]: Psalm 103:11 Or _revere_ [^d]: Psalm 103:13 Or _revere_ [^e]: Psalm 103:14 I.e., what we are made of [^f]: Psalm 103:17 Or _faithfulness_ [^g]: Psalm 103:17 Or _revere_ [^h]: Psalm 103:19 Or _kingdom_ [^i]: Psalm 103:19 I.e., the universe [^j]: Psalm 103:21 Lit _hosts_
