---
Aliases: [Psalms 108]
previous: ['Ps 107']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 109']
---
# Psalms 108

***








###### 1 



My heart is steadfast, God; I will sing, I will sing praises also with my [^a]soul. 







###### 2 



Awake, harp and lyre; I will awaken the dawn! 







###### 3 



I will give thanks to You, LORD, among the peoples, And I will sing praises to You among the nations. 







###### 4 



For Your mercy is great above the heavens, And Your truth _reaches_ to the skies. 







###### 5 



Be exalted above the heavens, God, And _may_ Your glory _be_ above all the earth. 







###### 6 



So that Your beloved may be rescued, Save with Your right hand, and answer me! 







###### 7 



God has spoken in His [^b]holiness: "I will triumph, I will divide up Shechem, And measure out the Valley of Succoth. 







###### 8 



Gilead is Mine, Manasseh is Mine; Ephraim also is the [^c]helmet of My head; Judah is My [^d]scepter. 







###### 9 



Moab is My washbowl; I will throw My sandal over Edom; I will shout aloud over Philistia." 







###### 10 



Who will bring me into the fortified city? Who [^e]will lead me to Edom? 







###### 11 



God, have You Yourself not rejected us? And will You not go forth with our armies, God? 







###### 12 



Give us help against the enemy, For deliverance [^f]by man is worthless. 







###### 13 



[^g]Through God we will do valiantly, And it is He who will trample down our enemies. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 108:1 Lit _glory_ [^b]: Psalm 108:7 Or _sanctuary_ [^c]: Psalm 108:8 Lit _protection_ [^d]: Psalm 108:8 Or _lawgiver_ [^e]: Psalm 108:10 Or _has led_ [^f]: Psalm 108:12 Lit _of_ [^g]: Psalm 108:13 Or _In_; or _With_
