---
Aliases: [Psalms 105]
previous: ['Ps 104']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 106']
---
# Psalms 105

***








###### 1 



Give thanks to the LORD, call upon His name; Make His deeds known among the peoples. 







###### 2 



Sing to Him, sing praises to Him; [^a]Tell of all His [^b]wonders. 







###### 3 



Boast in His holy name; May the heart of those who seek the LORD be joyful. 







###### 4 



Seek the LORD and His strength; Seek His face continually. 







###### 5 



Remember His [^c]wonders which He has done, His marvels and the judgments [^d]spoken by His mouth, 







###### 6 



You [^e]descendants of Abraham, His servant, You sons of Jacob, His chosen ones! 







###### 7 



He is the LORD our God; His judgments are in all the earth. 







###### 8 



He has remembered His covenant forever, The word which He commanded to a thousand generations, 







###### 9 



_The_ _covenant_ which He made with Abraham, And His oath to Isaac. 







###### 10 



Then He confirmed it to Jacob as a statute, To Israel as an everlasting covenant, 







###### 11 



Saying, "To you I will give the land of Canaan As the [^f]portion of your inheritance," 







###### 12 



When they were _only_ a few people in number, Very few, and strangers in it. 







###### 13 



And they wandered from nation to nation, From _one_ kingdom to another people, 







###### 14 



He allowed no one to oppress them, And He [^g]rebuked kings for their sakes, _saying_, 







###### 15 



"Do not touch My anointed ones, And do not harm My prophets." 







###### 16 



And He called for a famine upon the land; He broke the whole staff of bread. 







###### 17 



He sent a man before them, Joseph, _who_ was sold as a slave. 







###### 18 



They forced his feet into shackles, [^h]He was put in irons; 







###### 19 



Until the time that his word came to pass, The word of the LORD refined him. 







###### 20 



The king sent and released him, The ruler of peoples, and set him free. 







###### 21 



He made him lord of his house, And ruler over all his possessions, 







###### 22 



To [^i]imprison his high officials [^j]at will, That he might teach his elders wisdom. 







###### 23 



Israel also came into Egypt; So Jacob lived in the land of Ham. 







###### 24 



And He made His people very fruitful, And made them stronger than their enemies. 







###### 25 



He turned their heart to hate His people, To deal cunningly with His servants. 







###### 26 



He sent His servant Moses, _And_ Aaron, whom He had chosen. 







###### 27 



They [^k]performed His wondrous acts among them, And miracles in the land of Ham. 







###### 28 



He sent darkness and made _it_ dark; And they did not rebel against His words. 







###### 29 



He turned their waters into blood, And caused their fish to die. 







###### 30 



Their land swarmed with frogs _Even_ in the chambers of their kings. 







###### 31 



He spoke, and a swarm of flies _And_ gnats invaded all their territory. 







###### 32 



He [^l]gave them hail for rain, _And_ flaming fire in their land. 







###### 33 



He also struck their vines and their fig trees, And smashed the trees of their territory. 







###### 34 



He spoke, and locusts came, And creeping locusts, beyond number, 







###### 35 



And they ate all the vegetation in their land, And ate the fruit of their ground. 







###### 36 



He also fatally struck all the firstborn in their land, The first fruits of all their vigor. 







###### 37 



Then He brought [^m]the Israelites out with silver and gold, And among His tribes there was not one who stumbled. 







###### 38 



Egypt was glad when they departed, For the dread of them had fallen upon [^n]the Egyptians. 







###### 39 



He spread out a cloud as a [^o]covering, And fire to illumine by night. 







###### 40 



[^p]They asked, and He brought quail, And satisfied them with the [^q]bread of heaven. 







###### 41 



He opened the [^r]rock and water flowed out; [^s]It ran in the dry places _like_ a river. 







###### 42 



For He remembered His holy word _With_ His servant Abraham; 







###### 43 



And He led out His people with joy, His chosen ones with a joyful shout. 







###### 44 



He also gave them the lands of the [^t]nations, So that they might take possession of _the fruit of_ the peoples' labor, 







###### 45 



_And_ that they might keep His statutes And comply with His laws; [^u]Praise [^v]the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 105:2 Or _Meditate on_ [^b]: Psalm 105:2 I.e., wonderful acts [^c]: Psalm 105:5 I.e., wonderful acts [^d]: Psalm 105:5 Lit _of His mouth_ [^e]: Psalm 105:6 Lit _seed_ [^f]: Psalm 105:11 Lit _measuring line_ [^g]: Psalm 105:14 Or _punished_ [^h]: Psalm 105:18 Lit _His soul came into_ [^i]: Psalm 105:22 Lit _bind_ [^j]: Psalm 105:22 Lit _at his_ [^k]: Psalm 105:27 Lit _set the words of His signs_ [^l]: Psalm 105:32 Or _made their rain hail_ [^m]: Psalm 105:37 Lit _them_ [^n]: Psalm 105:38 Lit _them_ [^o]: Psalm 105:39 Or _curtain_ [^p]: Psalm 105:40 Or _One_ [^q]: Psalm 105:40 Or _food_ [^r]: Psalm 105:41 Or _boulder_ [^s]: Psalm 105:41 Lit _They went_ [^t]: Psalm 105:44 Or _Gentiles_ [^u]: Psalm 105:45 Or _Hallelujah_! [^v]: Psalm 105:45 Heb _Yah_
