---
Aliases: [Psalms 16]
previous: ['Ps 15']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 17']
---
# Psalms 16

***








###### 1 



Protect me, God, for I take refuge in You. 







###### 2 



[^b]I said to the LORD, "You are [^c]my Lord; I have nothing good besides You." 







###### 3 



As for the [^d]saints who are on the earth, [^e]They are the majestic ones; all my delight is in them. 







###### 4 



[^f]The pains of those who have acquired another _god_ will be multiplied; I will not pour out their drink offerings of blood, Nor will I take their names upon my lips. 







###### 5 



The LORD is the portion of my inheritance and my cup; You support my lot. 







###### 6 



The measuring lines have fallen for me in pleasant places; Indeed, my inheritance is beautiful to me. 







###### 7 



I will bless the LORD who has advised me; Indeed, my [^g]mind instructs me in the night. 







###### 8 



I have set the LORD continually before me; Because He is at my right hand, I will not be shaken. 







###### 9 



Therefore my heart is glad and my glory rejoices; My flesh also will dwell securely. 







###### 10 



For You will not abandon my soul to [^h]Sheol; You will not [^i]allow Your [^j]Holy One to [^k]undergo decay. 







###### 11 



You will make known to me the way of life; In Your presence is fullness of joy; In Your right hand there are pleasures forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 16 Title Possibly _Epigrammatic Poem_ or _Atonement Psalm_ [^b]: Psalm 16:2 Or O my soul, _you said_ [^c]: Psalm 16:2 Or _the Lord_ [^d]: Psalm 16:3 Lit _holy ones_; i.e., God’s people [^e]: Psalm 16:3 Lit _They, even the_ [^f]: Psalm 16:4 Lit _Their pains, they_ who _acquired_ [^g]: Psalm 16:7 Lit _kidneys_, figurative for inner man [^h]: Psalm 16:10 I.e., the netherworld [^i]: Psalm 16:10 Lit _give_ [^j]: Psalm 16:10 Or _godly one_ [^k]: Psalm 16:10 Or _see corruption_; or _the pit_
