---
Aliases: [Psalms 115]
previous: ['Ps 114']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 116']
---
# Psalms 115

***








###### 1 



Not to us, LORD, not to us, But to Your name give glory, Because of Your mercy, because of Your [^a]truth. 







###### 2 



Why should the nations say, "Where, then, is their God?" 







###### 3 



But our God is in the heavens; He does whatever He pleases. 







###### 4 



Their idols are silver and gold, The work of human hands. 







###### 5 



They have mouths, but they cannot speak; They have eyes, but they cannot see; 







###### 6 



They have ears, but they cannot hear; They have noses, but they cannot smell; 







###### 7 



[^b]They have hands, but they cannot feel; [^c]They have feet, but they cannot walk; They cannot make a sound with their throat. 







###### 8 



Those who make them [^d]will become like them, Everyone who trusts in them. 







###### 9 



Israel, trust in the LORD; He is their help and their shield. 







###### 10 



House of Aaron, trust in the LORD; He is their help and their shield. 







###### 11 



You who [^e]fear the LORD, trust in the LORD; He is their help and their shield. 







###### 12 



The LORD has been mindful of us; He will bless _us_. He will bless the house of Israel; He will bless the house of Aaron. 







###### 13 



He will bless those who [^f]fear the LORD, The small together with the great. 







###### 14 



May the LORD increase you, You and your children. 







###### 15 



May you be blessed of the LORD, Maker of heaven and earth. 







###### 16 



The heavens are the heavens of the LORD, But the earth He has given to the sons of mankind. 







###### 17 



The dead do not praise [^g]the LORD, Nor _do_ any who go down into silence; 







###### 18 



But as for us, we will bless [^h]the LORD From this time and forever. [^i]Praise [^j]the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 115:1 Or _faithfulness_ [^b]: Psalm 115:7 Lit _Their hands_ [^c]: Psalm 115:7 Lit _Their feet_ [^d]: Psalm 115:8 Or _are like them_ [^e]: Psalm 115:11 Or _revere_ [^f]: Psalm 115:13 Or _revere_ [^g]: Psalm 115:17 Heb _Yah_ [^h]: Psalm 115:18 Heb _Yah_ [^i]: Psalm 115:18 Or _Hallelujah_! [^j]: Psalm 115:18 Heb _Yah_
