---
Aliases: [Psalms 149]
previous: ['Ps 148']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 150']
---
# Psalms 149

***








###### 1 



[^a]Praise [^b]the LORD! Sing a new song to the LORD, _And_ His praise in the congregation of the godly ones. 







###### 2 



Israel shall be joyful in his Maker; The sons of Zion shall rejoice in their King. 







###### 3 



They shall praise His name with dancing; They shall sing praises to Him with tambourine and lyre. 







###### 4 



For the LORD takes pleasure in His people; He will glorify the lowly with salvation. 







###### 5 



The godly ones shall be jubilant in glory; They shall sing for joy on their beds. 







###### 6 



The high praises of God _shall be_ in their [^c]mouths, And a two-edged sword in their hands, 







###### 7 



To execute vengeance on the nations, And punishment on the peoples, 







###### 8 



To bind their kings with chains, And their dignitaries with shackles of iron, 







###### 9 



To execute against them the judgment written. This is an honor for all His godly ones. [^d]Praise [^e]the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 149:1 Or _Hallelujah_! [^b]: Psalm 149:1 Heb _Yah_ [^c]: Psalm 149:6 Lit _throat_ [^d]: Psalm 149:9 Or _Hallelujah_! [^e]: Psalm 149:9 Heb _Yah_
