---
Aliases: [Psalms 139]
previous: ['Ps 138']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 140']
---
# Psalms 139

***








###### 1 



LORD, You have searched me and known _me_. 







###### 2 



You know [^a]when I sit down and [^b]when I get up; You understand my thought from far away. 







###### 3 



You [^c]scrutinize my [^d]path and my lying down, And are acquainted with all my ways. 







###### 4 



[^e]Even before there is a word on my tongue, Behold, LORD, You know it all. 







###### 5 



You have encircled me behind and in front, And placed Your hand upon me. 







###### 6 



_Such_ knowledge is too wonderful for me; It is _too_ high, I cannot comprehend it. 







###### 7 



Where can I go from Your Spirit? Or where can I flee from Your presence? 







###### 8 



If I ascend to heaven, You are there; If I make my bed in [^f]Sheol, behold, You are there. 







###### 9 



_If_ I take up the wings of the dawn, _If_ I dwell in the remotest part of the sea, 







###### 10 



Even there Your hand will lead me, And Your right hand will take hold of me. 







###### 11 



_If_ I say, "Surely the darkness will [^g]overwhelm me, And the light around me will be night," 







###### 12 



Even darkness is not dark [^h]to You, And the night is as bright as the day. Darkness and light are alike _to You_. 







###### 13 



For You created my innermost parts; You wove me in my mother's womb. 







###### 14 



I will give thanks to You, because [^i]I am awesomely and wonderfully _made_; Wonderful are Your works, And my soul knows it very well. 







###### 15 



My [^j]frame was not hidden from You When I was made in secret, _And_ skillfully formed in the depths of the earth; 







###### 16 



Your eyes have seen my formless substance; And in Your book were written All the days that were ordained _for me_, When as yet there was not one of them. 







###### 17 



How precious also are Your thoughts for me, God! How vast is the sum of them! 







###### 18 



Were I to count them, they would outnumber the sand. When I awake, I am still with You. 







###### 19 



If only You would put the wicked to death, God; Leave me, you men of bloodshed. 







###### 20 



For they speak [^k]against You wickedly, And Your enemies [^l]take _Your name_ in vain. 







###### 21 



Do I not hate those who hate You, LORD? And do I not loathe those who rise up against You? 







###### 22 



I hate them with the utmost hatred; They have become my enemies. 







###### 23 



Search me, God, and know my heart; Put me to the test and know my anxious thoughts; 







###### 24 



And see if there is _any_ [^m]hurtful way in me, And lead me in the everlasting way. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 139:2 Lit _my sitting_ [^b]: Psalm 139:2 Lit _my rising_ [^c]: Psalm 139:3 Lit _winnow_ [^d]: Psalm 139:3 Or _journeying_ [^e]: Psalm 139:4 Lit _For there is not_ [^f]: Psalm 139:8 I.e., the netherworld [^g]: Psalm 139:11 Lit _bruise_; some commentators _cover_ [^h]: Psalm 139:12 Lit _from_ [^i]: Psalm 139:14 Some ancient versions _You are fearfully wonderful_ [^j]: Psalm 139:15 Lit _bones were_ [^k]: Psalm 139:20 Or _of_ [^l]: Psalm 139:20 Some mss _lift themselves up_ against You [^m]: Psalm 139:24 Lit _way of pain_
