---
Aliases: [Psalms 10]
previous: ['Ps 9']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 11']
---
# Psalms 10

***








###### 1 



Why do You stand far away, LORD? Why do You hide [^a]_Yourself_ in times of trouble? 







###### 2 



In arrogance the wicked hotly pursue the needy; [^b]Let them be caught in the plots which they have devised. 







###### 3 



For the wicked boasts of his soul's desire, And [^c]the greedy person curses _and_ shows disrespect to the LORD. 







###### 4 



The wicked, [^d]in his haughtiness, does not seek _Him_. There is no God _in_ all his schemes. 







###### 5 



His ways succeed at all times; _Yet_ Your judgments are on high, out of his sight; As for all his enemies, he snorts at them. 







###### 6 



He says to himself, "I will not be moved; [^e]Throughout the generations I will not be in adversity." 







###### 7 



His mouth is full of cursing, deceit, and oppression; Under his tongue is harm and injustice. 







###### 8 



He sits in the lurking places of the villages; He kills the innocent in the secret places; His eyes [^f]surreptitiously watch for the [^g]unfortunate. 







###### 9 



He lurks in secret like a lion in his [^h]lair; He lurks to catch the needy; He catches the needy when he pulls him into his net. 







###### 10 



Then he crushes _the needy one, who_ cowers; And [^i]unfortunate people fall by his mighty _power_. 







###### 11 



He says to himself, "God has forgotten; He has hidden His face; He will never see it." 







###### 12 



Arise, LORD; God, lift up Your hand. Do not forget the humble. 







###### 13 



Why has the wicked treated God disrespectfully? He has said to himself, "[^j]You will not require _an account_." 







###### 14 



You have seen _it_, for You have looked at harm and provocation to [^k]take it into Your hand. The [^l]unfortunate commits _himself_ to You; You have been the helper of the orphan. 







###### 15 



Break the arm of the wicked and the evildoer, [^m]Seek out his wickedness until You find none. 







###### 16 



The LORD is King forever and ever; Nations have perished from His land. 







###### 17 



LORD, You have heard the desire of the humble; You will strengthen their heart, You will make Your ear attentive 







###### 18 



To [^n]vindicate the orphan and the oppressed, So that mankind, which is of the earth, will no longer cause terror. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 10:1 Or Your eyes [^b]: Psalm 10:2 Or _They will be caught_ [^c]: Psalm 10:3 Or _blesses the greedy man_ [^d]: Psalm 10:4 Lit _the height of his nose_ [^e]: Psalm 10:6 Lit _To_ [^f]: Psalm 10:8 Lit _lie in wait_ [^g]: Psalm 10:8 Or _poor_ [^h]: Psalm 10:9 Or _thicket_ [^i]: Psalm 10:10 Or _unhappy_ [^j]: Psalm 10:13 I.e., as though God will ignore it [^k]: Psalm 10:14 Lit _put, give_ [^l]: Psalm 10:14 Or _poor_ [^m]: Psalm 10:15 Or _May You seek_ [^n]: Psalm 10:18 Lit _judge_
