---
Aliases: [Psalms 147]
previous: ['Ps 146']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 148']
---
# Psalms 147

***








###### 1 



[^a]Praise [^b]the LORD! For it is good to sing praises to our God; For [^c]it is pleasant _and_ praise is [^d]beautiful. 







###### 2 



The LORD builds up Jerusalem; He gathers the outcasts of Israel. 







###### 3 



He heals the brokenhearted And binds up their [^e]wounds. 







###### 4 



He counts the number of the stars; He [^f]gives names to all of them. 







###### 5 



Great is our Lord and abundant in strength; His understanding is [^g]infinite. 







###### 6 



The LORD [^h]supports the afflicted; He brings the wicked down to the ground. 







###### 7 



Sing to the LORD with thanksgiving; Sing praises to our God on the lyre; 







###### 8 



_It is_ He who covers the heavens with clouds, Who provides rain for the earth, Who makes grass sprout on the mountains. 







###### 9 



_It is_ He who gives an animal its food, _And feeds_ young ravens that cry. 







###### 10 



He does not delight in [^i]the strength of the horse; He does not take pleasure in the [^j]legs of a man. 







###### 11 



The LORD favors those who fear Him, Those who wait for His [^k]faithfulness. 







###### 12 



Praise the LORD, Jerusalem! Praise your God, Zion! 







###### 13 



For He has strengthened the bars of your gates; He has blessed your sons among you. 







###### 14 



He makes [^l]peace in your borders; He satisfies you with the [^m]finest of the wheat. 







###### 15 



He sends His command to the earth; His word runs very swiftly. 







###### 16 



He [^n]showers snow like wool; He scatters the frost like ashes. 







###### 17 



He hurls His ice as fragments; Who can stand before His cold? 







###### 18 



He sends His word and makes them melt; He makes His wind blow, and the waters flow. 







###### 19 



He declares His words to Jacob, His statutes and His judgments to Israel. 







###### 20 



He has not dealt this way with any _other_ nation; And as for His judgments, [^o]they have not known them. [^p]Praise [^q]the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 147:1 Or _Hallelujah_! [^b]: Psalm 147:1 Heb _Yah_ [^c]: Psalm 147:1 Or _He is delightful_ [^d]: Psalm 147:1 Or _fitting_ [^e]: Psalm 147:3 Lit _pains_ [^f]: Psalm 147:4 Or _calls them all by_ their _names_ [^g]: Psalm 147:5 Lit _innumerable_ [^h]: Psalm 147:6 Or _relieves_ [^i]: Psalm 147:10 I.e., as a military asset [^j]: Psalm 147:10 I.e., as a military asset [^k]: Psalm 147:11 Or _mercy_ [^l]: Psalm 147:14 Lit _your borders peace_ [^m]: Psalm 147:14 Lit _fat_ [^n]: Psalm 147:16 Lit _gives_ [^o]: Psalm 147:20 I.e., the other nations [^p]: Psalm 147:20 Or _Hallelujah_! [^q]: Psalm 147:20 Heb _Yah_
