---
Aliases: [Psalms 142]
previous: ['Ps 141']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 143']
---
# Psalms 142

***








###### 1 



I cry out with my voice to the LORD; With my voice I implore the LORD for compassion. 







###### 2 



I pour out my complaint before Him; I declare my trouble before Him. 







###### 3 



When my spirit felt weak within me, You knew my path. In the way where I walk They have hidden a trap for me. 







###### 4 



Look to the right and see; For there is no one who regards me _favorably_; [^c]There is no escape for me; No one cares for my soul. 







###### 5 



I cried out to You, LORD; I said, "You are my refuge, My portion in the land of the living. 







###### 6 



Give _Your_ attention to my cry, For I have been brought very low; Rescue me from my persecutors, For they are too strong for me. 







###### 7 



Bring my soul out of prison, So that I may give thanks to Your name; The righteous will surround me, For You will look after me." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 142 Title Possibly _Contemplative_; or _Didactic_; or _Skillful Psalm_ [^b]: Psalm 142 Title 1 Sam 22:1; 24:3 [^c]: Psalm 142:4 Lit _Escape has perished from me_
