---
Aliases: [Psalms 104]
previous: ['Ps 103']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 105']
---
# Psalms 104

***








###### 1 



Bless the LORD, my soul! LORD my God, You are very great; You are clothed with splendor and majesty, 







###### 2 



Covering Yourself with light as with a cloak, Stretching out heaven like a tent curtain. 







###### 3 



[^a]He lays the beams of His upper chambers in the waters; [^b]He makes the clouds His chariot; [^c]He walks on the wings of the wind; 







###### 4 



[^d]He makes [^e]the winds His messengers, [^f]Flaming fire His ministers. 







###### 5 



He established the earth upon its foundations, So that it will not [^g]totter forever and ever. 







###### 6 



You covered it with the deep sea as with a garment; The waters were standing above the mountains. 







###### 7 



They fled from Your rebuke, At the sound of Your thunder they hurried away. 







###### 8 



The mountains rose; the valleys sank down To the place which You established for them. 







###### 9 



You set a boundary _so that_ they will not pass over, _So that_ they will not return to cover the earth. 







###### 10 



[^h]He sends forth springs in the valleys; They flow between the mountains; 







###### 11 



They give drink to every animal of the field; The wild donkeys quench their thirst. 







###### 12 



The birds of the sky dwell [^i]beside them; They [^j]lift up _their_ voices from among the branches. 







###### 13 



[^k]He waters the mountains from His upper chambers; The earth is satisfied with the fruit of His works. 







###### 14 



[^l]He causes the grass to grow for the [^m]cattle, And vegetation for the labor of mankind, So that [^n]they may produce [^o]food from the earth, 







###### 15 



And wine, which makes a human heart cheerful, So that he makes _his_ face gleam with oil, And [^p]food, which sustains a human heart. 







###### 16 



The trees of the LORD [^q]drink their fill, The cedars of Lebanon which He planted, 







###### 17 



Where the birds build their nests, _And_ the stork, whose home is the juniper trees. 







###### 18 



The high mountains are for the wild goats; The cliffs are a refuge for the rock hyrax. 







###### 19 



He made the moon for the seasons; The sun knows the place of its setting. 







###### 20 



You appoint darkness and it becomes night, In which all the animals of the forest [^r]prowl about. 







###### 21 



The young lions roar for their prey [^s]And seek their food from God. 







###### 22 



_When_ the sun rises they withdraw, And they lie down in their dens. 







###### 23 



A person goes out to his work And to his labor until evening. 







###### 24 



LORD, how many are Your works! [^t]In wisdom You have made them all; The earth is full of Your [^u]possessions. 







###### 25 



[^v]There is the sea, great and [^w]broad, In which are swarms without number, Animals both small and great. 







###### 26 



The ships move along there, _And_ [^x]Leviathan, which You have formed to have fun in it. 







###### 27 



They all wait for You To give them their food in [^y]due season. 







###### 28 



You give to them, they gather _it_ up; You open Your hand, they are satisfied with good. 







###### 29 



You hide Your face, they are terrified; You take away their breath, they perish And return to their dust. 







###### 30 



You send forth Your [^z]Spirit, they are created; And You renew the face of the ground. 







###### 31 



May the glory of the LORD endure forever; May the LORD rejoice in His works; 







###### 32 



[^aa]He looks at the earth, and it trembles; He touches the mountains, and they smoke. 







###### 33 



[^ab]I will sing to the LORD [^ac]as long as I live; [^ad]I will sing praise to my God [^ae]while I have my being. 







###### 34 



May my praise be pleasing to Him; As for me, I shall rejoice in the LORD. 







###### 35 



May sinners be removed from the earth And _may_ the wicked be no more. Bless the LORD, my soul. [^af]Praise [^ag]the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 104:3 Lit _The one who_ [^b]: Psalm 104:3 Lit _The one who_ [^c]: Psalm 104:3 Lit _The one who_ [^d]: Psalm 104:4 Lit _Who_ [^e]: Psalm 104:4 Or _His angels, spirits_ [^f]: Psalm 104:4 Or _His ministers flames of fire_ [^g]: Psalm 104:5 Or _move out of place_ [^h]: Psalm 104:10 Lit _The one who sends_ [^i]: Psalm 104:12 Or _over_; or _above_ [^j]: Psalm 104:12 Lit _give forth_ [^k]: Psalm 104:13 Lit _Who_ [^l]: Psalm 104:14 Lit _Who_ [^m]: Psalm 104:14 Or _animals_ [^n]: Psalm 104:14 Or _He_ [^o]: Psalm 104:14 Lit _bread_ [^p]: Psalm 104:15 Lit _bread_ [^q]: Psalm 104:16 Lit _are satisfied_ [^r]: Psalm 104:20 Lit _crawl_ [^s]: Psalm 104:21 Lit _And to seek_ [^t]: Psalm 104:24 Or _With_ [^u]: Psalm 104:24 Or _creatures_ [^v]: Psalm 104:25 Or _This_ [^w]: Psalm 104:25 Or _broad of dimensions_; lit _hands_ [^x]: Psalm 104:26 Or _a sea monster_ [^y]: Psalm 104:27 Lit _its appointed time_ [^z]: Psalm 104:30 Or _breath_ [^aa]: Psalm 104:32 Lit _The one who_ [^ab]: Psalm 104:33 Or _Let me sing_ [^ac]: Psalm 104:33 Lit _in my lifetime_ [^ad]: Psalm 104:33 Or _Let me sing_ [^ae]: Psalm 104:33 Lit _while I still am_ [^af]: Psalm 104:35 Or _Hallelujah_! [^ag]: Psalm 104:35 Heb _Yah_
