---
Aliases: [Psalms 145]
previous: ['Ps 144']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 146']
---
# Psalms 145

***








###### 1 



I will exalt You, my God, the King, And I will bless Your name forever and ever. 







###### 2 



Every day I will bless You, And I will praise Your name forever and ever. 







###### 3 



Great is the LORD, and highly to be praised; And His greatness is unsearchable. 







###### 4 



One generation will praise Your works to another, And will declare Your mighty acts. 







###### 5 



On the glorious [^a]splendor of Your majesty And on Your wonderful works, I will meditate. 







###### 6 



People will speak of the [^b]power of Your awesome acts, And I will tell of Your greatness. 







###### 7 



They will burst forth [^c]in speaking of Your abundant goodness, And will shout joyfully of Your righteousness. 







###### 8 



The LORD is gracious and compassionate; Slow to anger and great in mercy. 







###### 9 



The LORD is good to all, And His mercies are over all His works. 







###### 10 



All Your works will give thanks to You, LORD, And Your godly ones will bless You. 







###### 11 



They will speak of the glory of Your kingdom, And talk of Your might, 







###### 12 



To make known to the sons of mankind [^d]Your mighty acts, And the glory of the majesty of [^e]Your kingdom. 







###### 13 



Your kingdom is [^f]an everlasting kingdom, And Your dominion _endures_ throughout all generations. [^g]The LORD is faithful in His words, And holy in all His works. 







###### 14 



The LORD supports all who fall, And raises up all who are bowed down. 







###### 15 



The eyes of all [^h]look to You, And You give them their food in due time. 







###### 16 



You open Your hand And satisfy the desire of every living thing. 







###### 17 



The LORD is righteous in all His ways, And kind in all His works. 







###### 18 



The LORD is near to all who call on Him, To all who call on Him in truth. 







###### 19 



He will fulfill the desire of those who fear Him; He will also hear their cry for help and save them. 







###### 20 



The LORD watches over all who love Him, But He will destroy all the wicked. 







###### 21 



My mouth will speak the praise of the LORD, And all flesh will bless His holy name forever and ever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 145:5 Or _majesty of Your splendor_ [^b]: Psalm 145:6 Or _strength_ [^c]: Psalm 145:7 Lit _the mention of_ [^d]: Psalm 145:12 Lit _His_ [^e]: Psalm 145:12 Lit _His_ [^f]: Psalm 145:13 Lit _a kingdom of all ages_ [^g]: Psalm 145:13 _The L__ord_..._His works_ in LXX (cf. DSS); not found in MT [^h]: Psalm 145:15 Lit _wait_; or _hope for_
