---
Aliases: [Psalms 112]
previous: ['Ps 111']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 113']
---
# Psalms 112

***








###### 1 



[^a]Praise [^b]the LORD! Blessed is a person who [^c]fears the LORD, Who greatly delights in His commandments. 







###### 2 



His [^d]descendants will be mighty [^e]on the earth; The generation of the upright will be blessed. 







###### 3 



Wealth and riches are in his house, And his righteousness endures forever. 







###### 4 



Light shines in the darkness for the upright; _He is_ gracious, compassionate, and righteous. 







###### 5 



It _goes_ well for a person who is gracious and lends; He will [^f]maintain his cause in judgment. 







###### 6 



For he will never be shaken; The righteous will be [^g]remembered forever. 







###### 7 



He will not fear bad news; His heart is steadfast, trusting in the LORD. 







###### 8 



His heart is firm, he will not fear, [^h]But will look _with satisfaction_ on his enemies. 







###### 9 



[^i]He has given freely to the poor, His righteousness endures forever; His horn will be exalted in honor. 







###### 10 



The wicked will see it and be [^j]vexed, He will gnash his teeth and melt away; The desire of the wicked will perish. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 112:1 Or _Hallelujah! Blessed_ [^b]: Psalm 112:1 Heb _Yah_ [^c]: Psalm 112:1 Or _reveres_ [^d]: Psalm 112:2 Lit _seed_ [^e]: Psalm 112:2 Or _in the land_ [^f]: Psalm 112:5 Or _conduct his affairs with justice_ [^g]: Psalm 112:6 Lit _for an eternal remembrance_ [^h]: Psalm 112:8 Lit _until he looks_ [^i]: Psalm 112:9 Lit _He has scattered, he has given to..._ [^j]: Psalm 112:10 Or _angry_
