---
Aliases: [Psalms 107]
previous: ['Ps 106']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 108']
---
# Psalms 107

***








###### 1 



Give thanks to the LORD, for He is good, For His mercy is everlasting. 







###### 2 



The redeemed of the LORD shall say _so_, _Those_ whom He has redeemed from the hand of the enemy 







###### 3 



And gathered from the lands, From the east and from the west, From the north and from the [^a]south. 







###### 4 



They wandered in the wilderness in a [^b]desert region; They did not find a way to [^c]an inhabited city. 







###### 5 



_They were_ hungry [^d]and thirsty; Their souls felt weak within them. 







###### 6 



Then they cried out to the LORD in their trouble; He saved them from their distresses. 







###### 7 



He also had them walk on a [^e]straight way, To go to [^f]an inhabited city. 







###### 8 



They shall give thanks to the LORD for His mercy, And for His [^g]wonders to the sons of mankind! 







###### 9 



For He has satisfied the [^h]thirsty soul, And He has filled the hungry soul with what is good. 







###### 10 



There were those who lived in darkness and in [^i]the shadow of death, Prisoners in misery and [^j]chains, 







###### 11 



Because they had rebelled against the words of God And rejected the plan of the Most High. 







###### 12 



Therefore He humbled their heart with labor; They stumbled and there was no one to help. 







###### 13 



Then they cried out to the LORD in their trouble; He saved them from their distresses. 







###### 14 



He brought them out of darkness and [^k]the shadow of death And broke their bands apart. 







###### 15 



They shall give thanks to the LORD for His mercy, And for His [^l]wonders to the sons of mankind! 







###### 16 



For He has shattered gates of bronze And cut off bars of iron. 







###### 17 



Fools, because of [^m]their rebellious way, And because of their guilty deeds, were afflicted. 







###### 18 



Their souls loathed all kinds of food, And they came close to the gates of death. 







###### 19 



Then they cried out to the LORD in their trouble; He saved them from their distresses. 







###### 20 



He sent His word and healed them, And saved _them_ from their [^n]destruction. 







###### 21 



They shall give thanks to the LORD for His mercy, And for His [^o]wonders to the sons of mankind! 







###### 22 



They shall also offer sacrifices of thanksgiving, And tell of His works with joyful singing. 







###### 23 



Those who go down to the sea in ships, Who do business on great waters; 







###### 24 



They have seen the works of the LORD, And His [^p]wonders in the deep. 







###### 25 



For He spoke and raised a stormy wind, Which lifted the waves [^q]of the sea. 







###### 26 



They rose up to the heavens, they went down to the depths; Their soul melted away in _their_ misery. 







###### 27 



They reeled and staggered like a drunken person, And [^r]were at their wits' end. 







###### 28 



Then they cried out to the LORD in their trouble, And He brought them out of their distresses. 







###### 29 



He caused the storm to be still, So that the waves [^s]of the sea were hushed. 







###### 30 



Then they were glad because they were quiet, So He guided them to their desired harbor. 







###### 31 



They shall give thanks to the LORD for His mercy, And for His [^t]wonders to the sons of mankind! 







###### 32 



They shall also exalt Him in the congregation of the people, And praise Him at the seat of the elders. 







###### 33 



He turns rivers into a [^u]wilderness, And springs of water into a thirsty ground; 







###### 34 



_And_ a fruitful land into a salt waste, Because of the wickedness of those who dwell in it. 







###### 35 



He turns a [^v]wilderness into a pool of water, And a dry land into springs of water; 







###### 36 



And He has the hungry live there, So that they may establish [^w]an inhabited city, 







###### 37 



And sow fields and plant vineyards, And [^x]gather a fruitful harvest. 







###### 38 



He also blesses them and they multiply greatly, And He does not let their cattle decrease. 







###### 39 



When they become few and lowly Because of oppression, misery, and sorrow, 







###### 40 



He pours contempt upon noblemen And makes them wander in a pathless wasteland. 







###### 41 



But He sets the needy [^y]securely on high, away from affliction, And makes _his_ families like a flock. 







###### 42 



The upright see it and are glad; But all injustice shuts its mouth. 







###### 43 



Who is wise? He is to pay attention to these things, And consider the mercy of the LORD. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 107:3 Lit _sea_ [^b]: Psalm 107:4 Lit _waste_ [^c]: Psalm 107:4 Or _a habitable city_; lit _a city of habitation_ [^d]: Psalm 107:5 Lit _also_ [^e]: Psalm 107:7 Or _level_ [^f]: Psalm 107:7 Or _a habitable city_; lit _a city of habitation_ [^g]: Psalm 107:8 I.e., wonderful acts [^h]: Psalm 107:9 Or _parched_ [^i]: Psalm 107:10 Or _deep gloom_ [^j]: Psalm 107:10 Lit _irons_ [^k]: Psalm 107:14 Or _deep darkness_ [^l]: Psalm 107:15 I.e., wonderful acts [^m]: Psalm 107:17 Lit _the way of their offense_ [^n]: Psalm 107:20 Lit _pits_ [^o]: Psalm 107:21 I.e., wonderful acts [^p]: Psalm 107:24 I.e., wonderful acts [^q]: Psalm 107:25 Lit _of it_ [^r]: Psalm 107:27 Lit _all their wisdom was swallowed up_ [^s]: Psalm 107:29 Lit _of it_ [^t]: Psalm 107:31 I.e., wonderful acts [^u]: Psalm 107:33 Or _desert_ [^v]: Psalm 107:35 Or _desert_ [^w]: Psalm 107:36 Or _a habitable city_; lit _a city of habitation_ [^x]: Psalm 107:37 Lit _acquire fruits of yield_ [^y]: Psalm 107:41 Lit _in an inaccessibly high place_
