---
Aliases: [Psalms 106]
previous: ['Ps 105']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 107']
---
# Psalms 106

***








###### 1 



[^a]Praise [^b]the LORD! Oh give thanks to the LORD, for He is good; For His mercy is everlasting. 







###### 2 



Who can speak of the mighty deeds of the LORD, Or can proclaim all His praise? 







###### 3 



How blessed are those who maintain [^c]justice, [^d]Who practice righteousness at all times! 







###### 4 



Remember me, LORD, in _Your_ favor [^e]toward Your people. Visit me with Your salvation, 







###### 5 



So that I may see the prosperity of Your chosen ones, That I may rejoice in the joy of Your nation, That I may boast with Your [^f]inheritance. 







###### 6 



We have sinned [^g]like our fathers, We have gone astray, we have behaved wickedly. 







###### 7 



Our fathers in Egypt did not understand Your [^h]wonders; They did not remember [^i]Your abundant kindnesses, But rebelled by the sea, at the [^j]Red Sea. 







###### 8 



Nevertheless He saved them for the sake of His name, So that He might make His power known. 







###### 9 



So He rebuked the [^k]Red Sea and it dried up, And He led them through the mighty waters, as _through_ the wilderness. 







###### 10 



So He saved them from the [^l]hand of one who hated _them_, And redeemed them from the [^m]hand of the enemy. 







###### 11 



The waters covered their adversaries; Not one of them was left. 







###### 12 



Then they believed His words; They sang His praise. 







###### 13 



They quickly forgot His works; They did not wait for His plan, 







###### 14 



But became lustfully greedy in the wilderness, And put God to the test in the desert. 







###### 15 



So He gave them their request, But sent a [^n]wasting disease among them. 







###### 16 



When they became envious of Moses in the camp, And of Aaron, the holy one of the LORD, 







###### 17 



The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, And engulfed the [^o]company of Abiram. 







###### 18 



And a fire blazed up in their [^p]company; The flame consumed the wicked. 







###### 19 



They made a calf in Horeb, And worshiped a cast metal image. 







###### 20 



So they exchanged their glory For the image of an ox that eats grass. 







###### 21 



They forgot God their Savior, Who had done great things in Egypt, 







###### 22 



[^q]Wonders in the land of Ham, _And_ awesome things by the [^r]Red Sea. 







###### 23 



Therefore He said that He would destroy them, If Moses, His chosen one, had not stood in the gap before Him, To turn away His wrath from destroying _them_. 







###### 24 



Then they rejected the pleasant land; They did not believe His word, 







###### 25 



But grumbled in their tents; They did not listen to the voice of the LORD. 







###### 26 



Therefore He [^s]swore to them That He would have them fall in the wilderness, 







###### 27 



And that He would bring down their [^t]descendants among the nations, And scatter them in the lands. 







###### 28 



They also followed [^u]Baal-peor, And ate sacrifices _offered to_ the dead. 







###### 29 



So they provoked _Him_ to anger with their deeds, And a plague broke out among them. 







###### 30 



Then Phinehas stood up and [^v]intervened, And so the plague was brought to a halt. 







###### 31 



And it was credited to him as righteousness, To all generations forever. 







###### 32 



They also provoked _Him_ to wrath at the waters of [^w]Meribah, So that it went badly for Moses on their account. 







###### 33 



Because they were rebellious against [^x]His Spirit, He spoke rashly with his lips. 







###### 34 



They did not destroy the peoples, As the LORD had commanded them, 







###### 35 



But they got involved with the nations And learned their [^y]practices, 







###### 36 



And served their idols, Which became a snare to them. 







###### 37 



They even sacrificed their sons and their daughters to the demons, 







###### 38 



And shed innocent blood, The blood of their sons and their daughters Whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan; And the land was defiled with the blood. 







###### 39 



So they became unclean in their [^z]practices, And [^aa]were unfaithful in their deeds. 







###### 40 



Therefore the anger of the LORD was kindled against His people, And He loathed His [^ab]inheritance. 







###### 41 



So He handed them over to the [^ac]nations, And those who hated them ruled over them. 







###### 42 



Their enemies also oppressed them, And they were subdued under their [^ad]power. 







###### 43 



Many times He would rescue them; They, however, were rebellious in their plan, And they sank down into their guilt. 







###### 44 



Nevertheless He looked at their distress When He heard their cry; 







###### 45 



And He remembered His covenant for their sake, And [^ae]relented according to the greatness of His mercy. 







###### 46 



He also made them _objects_ of compassion In the presence of all their captors. 







###### 47 



Save us, LORD our God, And gather us from the nations, To give thanks to Your holy name And glory in Your praise. 







###### 48 



Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, From everlasting to everlasting. And all the people shall say, "Amen." [^af]Praise [^ag]the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 106:1 Or _Hallelujah_! [^b]: Psalm 106:1 Heb _Yah_ [^c]: Psalm 106:3 Or _judgment_ [^d]: Psalm 106:3 Many Heb mss _The one who performs_ [^e]: Psalm 106:4 Lit _of_ [^f]: Psalm 106:5 I.e., people [^g]: Psalm 106:6 Lit _with_ [^h]: Psalm 106:7 I.e., wonderful acts [^i]: Psalm 106:7 Lit _the multitude of Your kindnesses_ [^j]: Psalm 106:7 Lit _Sea of Reeds_ [^k]: Psalm 106:9 Lit _Sea of Reeds_ [^l]: Psalm 106:10 Or _power_ [^m]: Psalm 106:10 Or _power_ [^n]: Psalm 106:15 Or _leanness into their soul_ [^o]: Psalm 106:17 Or _assembly, band_ [^p]: Psalm 106:18 Or _assembly, band_ [^q]: Psalm 106:22 I.e., Wonderful acts [^r]: Psalm 106:22 Lit _Sea of Reeds_ [^s]: Psalm 106:26 Lit _lifted up His hand_ [^t]: Psalm 106:27 Lit _seed_ [^u]: Psalm 106:28 Or _Baal of Peor_ [^v]: Psalm 106:30 Or _pronounced judgment_ [^w]: Psalm 106:32 Lit _strife_ [^x]: Psalm 106:33 Or _his spirit_ [^y]: Psalm 106:35 Lit _works_ [^z]: Psalm 106:39 Lit _works_ [^aa]: Psalm 106:39 Or _prostituted themselves_ [^ab]: Psalm 106:40 I.e., people [^ac]: Psalm 106:41 Or _Gentiles_ [^ad]: Psalm 106:42 Lit _hand_ [^ae]: Psalm 106:45 Lit _was sorry_ [^af]: Psalm 106:48 Or _Hallelujah_! [^ag]: Psalm 106:48 Heb _Yah_
