---
Aliases: [Psalms 146]
previous: ['Ps 145']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 147']
---
# Psalms 146

***








###### 1 



[^a]Praise [^b]the LORD! Praise the LORD, my soul! 







###### 2 



I will praise the LORD while I live; I will sing praises to my God while I [^c]have my being. 







###### 3 



Do not trust in noblemen, In [^d]mortal man, in whom there is no salvation. 







###### 4 



His spirit departs, he returns to [^e]the earth; On that _very_ day his plans perish. 







###### 5 



Blessed is he whose help is the God of Jacob, Whose hope is in the LORD his God, 







###### 6 



Who made heaven and earth, The sea and everything that is in them; Who keeps [^f]faith forever; 







###### 7 



Who executes justice for the oppressed; Who gives food to the hungry. The LORD frees the prisoners. 







###### 8 



The LORD opens _the eyes of_ those who are blind; The LORD raises up those who are bowed down; The LORD loves the righteous. 







###### 9 



The LORD watches over strangers; He [^g]supports the fatherless and the widow, But He [^h]thwarts the way of the wicked. 







###### 10 



The LORD will reign forever, Your God, Zion, to all generations. [^i]Praise [^j]the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 146:1 Or _Hallelujah_! [^b]: Psalm 146:1 Heb _Yah_ [^c]: Psalm 146:2 Lit _still am_ [^d]: Psalm 146:3 Lit _a son of man_ [^e]: Psalm 146:4 Lit _his earth_ [^f]: Psalm 146:6 Or _truth_ [^g]: Psalm 146:9 Or _relieves_ [^h]: Psalm 146:9 Lit _bends_ [^i]: Psalm 146:10 Or _Hallelujah_! [^j]: Psalm 146:10 Heb _Yah_
