---
Aliases: [Psalms 136]
previous: ['Ps 135']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 137']
---
# Psalms 136

***








###### 1 



Give thanks to the LORD, for He is good, For His [^a]faithfulness is everlasting. 







###### 2 



Give thanks to the God of gods, For His faithfulness is everlasting. 







###### 3 



Give thanks to the Lord of lords, For His faithfulness is everlasting. 







###### 4 



To Him who alone does great [^b]wonders, For His faithfulness is everlasting; 







###### 5 



To Him who made the heavens [^c]with skill, For His faithfulness is everlasting; 







###### 6 



To Him who spread out the earth above the waters, For His faithfulness is everlasting; 







###### 7 



To Him who made _the_ great lights, For His faithfulness is everlasting: 







###### 8 



The sun to rule [^d]by day, For His faithfulness is everlasting, 







###### 9 



The moon and stars to rule [^e]by night, For His faithfulness is everlasting. 







###### 10 



To Him who struck [^f]the Egyptians, that is, their firstborn, For His faithfulness is everlasting, 







###### 11 



And brought Israel out from their midst, For His faithfulness is everlasting, 







###### 12 



With a strong hand and an outstretched arm, For His faithfulness is everlasting. 







###### 13 



To Him who divided the [^g]Red Sea in parts, For His faithfulness is everlasting, 







###### 14 



And allowed Israel to pass through the midst of it, For His faithfulness is everlasting; 







###### 15 



But He [^h]overthrew Pharaoh and his army in the [^i]Red Sea, For His faithfulness is everlasting. 







###### 16 



To Him who led His people through the wilderness, For His faithfulness is everlasting; 







###### 17 



To Him who struck great kings, For His faithfulness is everlasting, 







###### 18 



And brought death to [^j]mighty kings, For His faithfulness is everlasting: 







###### 19 



Sihon, king of the Amorites, For His faithfulness is everlasting, 







###### 20 



And Og, king of Bashan, For His faithfulness is everlasting, 







###### 21 



And gave their land as an inheritance, For His faithfulness is everlasting, 







###### 22 



An inheritance to His servant Israel, For His faithfulness is everlasting. 







###### 23 



Who remembered us in our lowliness, For His faithfulness is everlasting, 







###### 24 



And has rescued us from our enemies, For His faithfulness is everlasting; 







###### 25 



Who gives food to all flesh, For His faithfulness is everlasting. 







###### 26 



Give thanks to the God of heaven, For His faithfulness is everlasting. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 136:1 Or _mercy_, and so throughout the Psalm [^b]: Psalm 136:4 I.e., wonderful acts [^c]: Psalm 136:5 Lit _with understanding_ [^d]: Psalm 136:8 Or _over the_ [^e]: Psalm 136:9 Or _over the_ [^f]: Psalm 136:10 Lit _Egypt_ [^g]: Psalm 136:13 Lit _Sea of Reeds_ [^h]: Psalm 136:15 Lit _shook off_ [^i]: Psalm 136:15 Lit _Sea of Reeds_ [^j]: Psalm 136:18 Lit _majestic_
