---
Aliases: [Psalms 14]
previous: ['Ps 13']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 15']
---
# Psalms 14

***








###### 1 



The fool has said in his heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt, they have committed detestable acts; There is no one who does good. 







###### 2 



The LORD has looked down from heaven upon the sons of mankind To see if there are any who [^a]understand, Who seek God. 







###### 3 



They have all turned aside, together they are corrupt; There is no one who does good, not even one. 







###### 4 



Do all the workers of injustice not know, Who devour my people _as_ they eat bread, _And_ do not call upon the LORD? 







###### 5 



There they are in great dread, For God is with a righteous generation. 







###### 6 



You would put to shame the plan of the poor, But the LORD is his refuge. 







###### 7 



Oh, that the salvation of Israel _would come_ out of Zion! When the LORD restores the fortunes of His people, Jacob will rejoice, Israel will be glad. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 14:2 Or _act wisely_
