---
Aliases: [Psalms 148]
previous: ['Ps 147']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 149']
---
# Psalms 148

***








###### 1 



[^a]Praise [^b]the LORD! Praise the LORD from the heavens; Praise Him in the heights! 







###### 2 



Praise Him, all His angels; Praise Him, all His _heavenly_ armies! 







###### 3 



Praise Him, sun and moon; Praise Him, all stars of light! 







###### 4 



Praise Him, [^c]highest heavens, And the waters that are above the heavens! 







###### 5 



They are to praise the name of the LORD, For He commanded and they were created. 







###### 6 



He has also established them forever and ever; He has made a decree, and it will not pass away. 







###### 7 



Praise the LORD from the earth, Sea monsters, and all the ocean depths; 







###### 8 



Fire and hail, snow and clouds; Stormy wind, fulfilling His word; 







###### 9 



Mountains and all hills; Fruit trees and all cedars; 







###### 10 



Animals and all cattle; Crawling things and winged fowl; 







###### 11 



Kings of the earth and all peoples; Rulers and all judges of the earth; 







###### 12 



Both young men and virgins; Old men and children. 







###### 13 



They are to praise the name of the LORD, For His name alone is exalted; His majesty is above earth and heaven. 







###### 14 



And He has lifted up a horn for His people, Praise for all His godly ones, For the sons of Israel, a people near to Him. [^d]Praise [^e]the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 148:1 Or _Hallelujah_! [^b]: Psalm 148:1 Heb _Yah_ [^c]: Psalm 148:4 Lit _heavens of heavens_ [^d]: Psalm 148:14 Or _Hallelujah_! [^e]: Psalm 148:14 Heb _Yah_
