---
Aliases: [Psalms 116]
previous: ['Ps 115']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 117']
---
# Psalms 116

***








###### 1 



I love the LORD, because He hears My voice _and_ my pleas. 







###### 2 



Because He has inclined His ear to me, Therefore I will call _upon Him_ as long as I live. 







###### 3 



The snares of death encompassed me And the [^a]terrors of [^b]Sheol [^c]came upon me; I found distress and sorrow. 







###### 4 



Then I called upon the name of the LORD: "Please, LORD, save my [^d]life!" 







###### 5 



Gracious is the LORD, and righteous; Yes, our God is compassionate. 







###### 6 



The LORD watches over the simple; I was brought low, and He saved me. 







###### 7 



Return to your rest, my soul, For the LORD has dealt _generously_ with you. 







###### 8 



For You have rescued my soul from death, My eyes from tears, _And_ my feet from stumbling. 







###### 9 



I shall walk before the LORD In the [^e]land of the living. 







###### 10 



I believed when I said, "I am greatly afflicted." 







###### 11 



I said in my alarm, "All people are liars." 







###### 12 



What shall I repay to the LORD For all His benefits [^f]to me? 







###### 13 



I will lift up the cup of salvation, And call upon the name of the LORD. 







###### 14 



I will pay my vows to the LORD; _May it be_ in the presence of all His people! 







###### 15 



Precious in the sight of the LORD Is the death of His godly ones. 







###### 16 



O LORD, [^g]I surely am Your slave, I am Your slave, the son of Your female slave, You have unfastened my restraints. 







###### 17 



I will offer You a sacrifice of thanksgiving, And call upon the name of the LORD. 







###### 18 



I will pay my vows to the LORD, _May it be_ in the presence of all His people, 







###### 19 



In the courtyards of the LORD's house, In the midst of you, Jerusalem! [^h]Praise [^i]the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 116:3 Lit _straits_ [^b]: Psalm 116:3 I.e., the netherworld [^c]: Psalm 116:3 Lit _found me_ [^d]: Psalm 116:4 Or _soul_ [^e]: Psalm 116:9 Lit _lands_ [^f]: Psalm 116:12 Lit _upon_ [^g]: Psalm 116:16 Or _because I am_ [^h]: Psalm 116:19 Or _Hallelujah_! [^i]: Psalm 116:19 Heb _Yah_
