---
Aliases: [Psalms 143]
previous: ['Ps 142']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 144']
---
# Psalms 143

***








###### 1 



Hear my prayer, LORD, Listen to my pleadings! Answer me in Your faithfulness, in Your righteousness! 







###### 2 



And do not enter into judgment with Your servant, For no person living is righteous in Your sight. 







###### 3 



For the enemy has persecuted my soul; He has crushed my life to the ground; He has made me dwell in dark places, like those who have long been dead. 







###### 4 



Therefore my spirit [^a]feels weak within me; My heart is [^b]appalled within me. 







###### 5 



I remember the days of old; I meditate on all Your accomplishments; I reflect on the work of Your hands. 







###### 6 



I spread out my hands to You; My soul _longs_ for You, like a weary land. Selah 







###### 7 



Answer me quickly, LORD, my spirit fails; Do not hide Your face from me, Or I will be the same as those who go down to the pit. 







###### 8 



Let me hear Your faithfulness in the morning, For I trust in You; Teach me the way in which I should walk; For to You I lift up my soul. 







###### 9 



Save me, LORD, from my enemies; [^c]I take refuge in You. 







###### 10 



Teach me to do Your will, For You are my God; Let Your good Spirit lead me on level [^d]ground. 







###### 11 



For the sake of Your name, LORD, revive me. In Your righteousness bring my soul out of trouble. 







###### 12 



And in Your faithfulness, [^e]destroy my enemies, And eliminate all those who attack my soul, For I am Your servant. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 143:4 Or _faints within_ [^b]: Psalm 143:4 Or _desolate_ [^c]: Psalm 143:9 Lit _To You have I hidden_ [^d]: Psalm 143:10 Lit _land_ [^e]: Psalm 143:12 Or _silence_
