---
Aliases: [Psalms 144]
previous: ['Ps 143']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 145']
---
# Psalms 144

***








###### 1 



Blessed be the LORD, my rock, Who trains my hands for war, _And_ my fingers for battle; 







###### 2 



My faithfulness and my fortress, My stronghold and my savior, My shield and He in whom I take refuge, Who subdues [^a]my people under me. 







###### 3 



LORD, what is man, that You look after him? Or a son of man, that You think of him? 







###### 4 



Man is like the breath; His days are like a passing shadow. 







###### 5 



Bend down Your heavens, LORD, and come down; Touch the mountains, that they may smoke. 







###### 6 



Flash forth lightning and scatter them; Send out Your arrows and confuse them. 







###### 7 



Reach out with Your hand from on high; Rescue me and save me from great waters, From the hand of foreigners 







###### 8 



Whose mouths speak deceit, And whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood. 







###### 9 



God, I will sing a new song to You; On a harp of ten strings I will sing praises to You, 







###### 10 



Who gives salvation to kings, Who rescues His servant David from the evil sword. 







###### 11 



Rescue me and save me from the hand of foreigners, Whose mouth speaks deceit And whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood. 







###### 12 



When our sons in their youth _are_ like growing plants, And our daughters like corner pillars [^b]fashioned for a palace, 







###### 13 



Our granaries _are_ full, providing every kind _of produce_, _And_ our flocks deliver thousands and ten thousands in our [^c]fields; 







###### 14 



_May_ our cattle [^d]be bred Without [^e]mishap and without [^f]loss, _May there be_ no outcry in our streets! 







###### 15 



Blessed are the people who are so situated; Blessed are the people whose God is the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 144:2 Another reading is _peoples_ [^b]: Psalm 144:12 Lit _cut after the pattern of_ [^c]: Psalm 144:13 Lit _outside_ [^d]: Psalm 144:14 Lit _be laden_ [^e]: Psalm 144:14 Lit _breach_ [^f]: Psalm 144:14 Lit _going out_; i.e., miscarriage
