---
Aliases: [Psalms 135]
previous: ['Ps 134']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 136']
---
# Psalms 135

***








###### 1 



[^a]Praise [^b]the LORD! Praise the name of the LORD; Praise _Him_, you servants of the LORD, 







###### 2 



You who stand in the house of the LORD, In the courtyards of the house of our God! 







###### 3 



[^c]Praise [^d]the LORD, for the LORD is good; Sing praises to His name, for it is lovely. 







###### 4 



For [^e]the LORD has chosen Jacob for Himself, Israel as His own possession. 







###### 5 



For I know that the LORD is great And that our Lord is above all gods. 







###### 6 



Whatever the LORD pleases, He does, In heaven and on earth, in the seas and in all the ocean depths. 







###### 7 



[^f]He causes the [^g]mist to ascend from the ends of the earth, [^h]He makes lightning for the rain; [^i]He brings forth the wind from His treasuries. 







###### 8 



[^j]He struck the firstborn of Egypt, [^k]Both human _firstborn_ and animal. 







###### 9 



[^l]He sent signs and wonders into your midst, Egypt, Upon Pharaoh and all his servants. 







###### 10 



[^m]He struck many nations And brought death to mighty kings, 







###### 11 



Sihon, king of the Amorites, Og, king of Bashan, And all the kingdoms of Canaan; 







###### 12 



And He gave their land as an inheritance, An inheritance to His people Israel. 







###### 13 



Your name, LORD, is everlasting, The mention of You, LORD, is [^n]throughout all generations. 







###### 14 



For the LORD will judge His people And will have compassion on His servants. 







###### 15 



The idols of the nations are _nothing but_ silver and gold, The work of human hands. 







###### 16 



They have mouths, but they do not speak; They have eyes, but they do not see; 







###### 17 



They have ears, but they do not hear, Nor is there any breath at all in their mouths. 







###### 18 



Those who make them will become like them, _Yes_, everyone who trusts in them. 







###### 19 



House of Israel, bless the LORD; House of Aaron, bless the LORD; 







###### 20 



House of Levi, bless the LORD; You who [^o]revere the LORD, bless the LORD. 







###### 21 



Blessed be the LORD from Zion, Who dwells in Jerusalem. [^p]Praise [^q]the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 135:1 Or _Hallelujah_! [^b]: Psalm 135:1 Heb _Yah_ [^c]: Psalm 135:3 Or _Hallelujah_! [^d]: Psalm 135:3 Heb _Yah_ [^e]: Psalm 135:4 Heb _Yah_ [^f]: Psalm 135:7 Lit _The one who_ [^g]: Psalm 135:7 I.e., clouds [^h]: Psalm 135:7 Lit _The one who_ [^i]: Psalm 135:7 Lit _The one who_ [^j]: Psalm 135:8 Lit _The one who_ [^k]: Psalm 135:8 Lit _From man to animal_ [^l]: Psalm 135:9 Lit _The one who_ [^m]: Psalm 135:10 Lit _The one who_ [^n]: Psalm 135:13 Lit _to_ [^o]: Psalm 135:20 Lit _fear_ [^p]: Psalm 135:21 Or _Hallelujah_! [^q]: Psalm 135:21 Heb _Yah_
