---
Aliases: [Psalms 11]
previous: ['Ps 10']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 12']
---
# Psalms 11

***








###### 1 



In the LORD I take refuge; How can you say to my soul, "Flee _as_ a bird to your mountain? 







###### 2 



For, behold, the wicked bend the bow, They have [^a]set their arrow on the string To shoot in darkness at the upright in heart. 







###### 3 



If the foundations are destroyed, What can the righteous do?" 







###### 4 



The LORD is in His holy temple; the [^b]LORD's throne is in heaven; His eyes see, His eyelids test the sons of mankind. 







###### 5 



The LORD tests the righteous and the wicked, And His soul hates one who loves violence. 







###### 6 



He will rain [^c]coals of fire upon the wicked, And brimstone and burning wind will be the portion of their cup. 







###### 7 



For the LORD is righteous, He loves [^d]righteousness; The upright will see His face. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 11:2 Or _fixed_ [^b]: Psalm 11:4 Lit _Lord__, His throne_ [^c]: Psalm 11:6 As in a Gr version; MT _snares; Fire and_ [^d]: Psalm 11:7 Or _righteous deeds_
