---
Aliases: [Psalms 102]
previous: ['Ps 101']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 103']
---
# Psalms 102

***








###### 1 



Hear my prayer, LORD! And let my cry for help come to You. 







###### 2 



Do not hide Your face from me on the day of my distress; Incline Your ear to me; On the day when I call answer me quickly. 







###### 3 



For my days have ended in smoke, And my bones have been scorched like a hearth. 







###### 4 



My heart has been struck like [^b]grass and has withered, Indeed, I forget to eat my bread. 







###### 5 



Because of the [^c]loudness of my groaning My bones [^d]cling to my flesh. 







###### 6 



I resemble a pelican of the wilderness; I have become like an owl of the ruins. 







###### 7 



I lie awake, I have become like a solitary bird on a housetop. 







###### 8 



My enemies have taunted me all day long; Those who [^e]deride me [^f]have used my _name_ as a curse. 







###### 9 



For I have eaten ashes like bread, And mixed my drink with weeping 







###### 10 



Because of Your indignation and Your wrath; For You have lifted me up and thrown me away. 







###### 11 



My days are like a [^g]lengthened shadow, And [^h]I wither away like [^i]grass. 







###### 12 



But You, LORD, [^j]remain forever, And Your [^k]name _remains_ to all generations. 







###### 13 



You will arise _and_ have compassion on Zion; For it is time to be gracious to her, For the appointed time has come. 







###### 14 



Surely Your servants [^l]take pleasure in her stones, And feel pity for her dust. 







###### 15 



[^m]So the [^n]nations will fear the name of the LORD, And all the kings of the earth, Your glory. 







###### 16 



For the LORD has built up Zion; He has appeared in His glory. 







###### 17 



He has turned His attention to the prayer of the [^o]destitute And has not despised their prayer. 







###### 18 



[^p]This will be written for the generation to come, [^q]That a people yet to be created [^r]may praise [^s]the LORD: 







###### 19 



For He looked down from His holy height; From heaven the LORD looked [^t]upon the earth, 







###### 20 



To hear the groaning of the prisoner, To set free [^u]those who were doomed to death, 







###### 21 



So that _people_ may tell of the name of the LORD in Zion, And His praise in Jerusalem, 







###### 22 



When the peoples are gathered together, And the kingdoms, to serve the LORD. 







###### 23 



He has broken my strength in the way; He has shortened my days. 







###### 24 



I say, "My God, do not take me away in the middle of my days, Your years are [^v]throughout all generations. 







###### 25 



In time of old You founded the earth, And the heavens are the work of Your hands. 







###### 26 



[^w]Even they will perish, but You endure; All of them will wear out like a garment; Like clothing You will change them and they will pass away. 







###### 27 



But You are [^x]the same, And Your years will not come to an end. 







###### 28 



The children of Your servants will continue, And their [^y]descendants will be established before You." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 102 Title Ps 142:2 [^b]: Psalm 102:4 Lit _herbage_ [^c]: Psalm 102:5 Lit _voice_ [^d]: Psalm 102:5 Lit _have cleaved_ [^e]: Psalm 102:8 Or _made a fool of_ [^f]: Psalm 102:8 Lit _have sworn by me_ [^g]: Psalm 102:11 Lit _stretched out_ [^h]: Psalm 102:11 Or _as for me, I_ [^i]: Psalm 102:11 Lit _herbage_ [^j]: Psalm 102:12 Or _sit enthroned_ [^k]: Psalm 102:12 Lit _memorial_ [^l]: Psalm 102:14 Or _have found_ [^m]: Psalm 102:15 Or _And_ [^n]: Psalm 102:15 Or _Gentiles, heathen_ [^o]: Psalm 102:17 Or _naked_ [^p]: Psalm 102:18 Or _Let this be written_ [^q]: Psalm 102:18 Or _And_ [^r]: Psalm 102:18 Or _will_ [^s]: Psalm 102:18 Heb _Yah_ [^t]: Psalm 102:19 Lit _toward_ [^u]: Psalm 102:20 Lit _the sons of death_ [^v]: Psalm 102:24 Lit _in generation of generations_ [^w]: Psalm 102:26 Lit _They themselves_ [^x]: Psalm 102:27 Lit _He_ [^y]: Psalm 102:28 Lit _seed_
