---
Aliases: [Psalms 118]
previous: ['Ps 117']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 119']
---
# Psalms 118

***








###### 1 



Give thanks to the LORD, for He is good; For His mercy is everlasting. 







###### 2 



Let Israel say, "His mercy is everlasting." 







###### 3 



Oh let the house of Aaron say, "His mercy is everlasting." 







###### 4 



Let those who [^a]fear the LORD say, "His mercy is everlasting." 







###### 5 



From _my_ distress I called upon [^b]the LORD; [^c]The LORD answered me _and_ _put me_ in an open space. 







###### 6 



The LORD is for me; I will not fear; What can man do to me? 







###### 7 



The LORD is for me among those who help me; Therefore I will look _with satisfaction_ on those who hate me. 







###### 8 



It is better to take refuge in the LORD Than to trust in people. 







###### 9 



It is better to take refuge in the LORD Than to trust in noblemen. 







###### 10 



All nations surrounded me; In the name of the LORD I will certainly fend them off. 







###### 11 



They surrounded me, yes, they surrounded me; In the name of the LORD I will certainly fend them off. 







###### 12 



They surrounded me like bees; They were extinguished like a fire of thorn bushes; In the name of the LORD I will certainly fend them off. 







###### 13 



You pushed me violently so that I [^d]was falling, But the LORD helped me. 







###### 14 



[^e]The LORD is my strength and song, And He has become my salvation. 







###### 15 



The sound of joyful shouting and salvation is in the tents of the righteous; The right hand of the LORD performs valiantly. 







###### 16 



The right hand of the LORD is exalted; The right hand of the LORD performs valiantly. 







###### 17 



I will not die, but live, And tell of the works of [^f]the LORD. 







###### 18 



[^g]The LORD has disciplined me severely, But He has not turned me over to death. 







###### 19 



Open the gates of righteousness to me; I will enter through them, I will give thanks to [^h]the LORD. 







###### 20 



This is the gate of the LORD; The righteous will enter through it. 







###### 21 



I will give thanks to You, for You have answered me, And You have become my salvation. 







###### 22 



A stone which the builders rejected Has become the [^i]chief cornerstone. 







###### 23 



This came about from the LORD; It is marvelous in our eyes. 







###### 24 



This is the day which the LORD has made; Let's rejoice and be glad in it. 







###### 25 



Please, O LORD, do save _us_; Please, O LORD, do send prosperity! 







###### 26 



Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the LORD; We have blessed you from the house of the LORD. 







###### 27 



The LORD is God, and He has given us light; Bind the festival sacrifice [^j]to the horns of the altar with cords. 







###### 28 



You are my God, and I give thanks to You; _You are_ my God, I exalt You. 







###### 29 



Give thanks to the LORD, for He is good; For His mercy is everlasting. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 118:4 Or _revere_ [^b]: Psalm 118:5 Heb _Yah_ [^c]: Psalm 118:5 Heb _Yah_ [^d]: Psalm 118:13 Or _fell_ [^e]: Psalm 118:14 Heb _Yah_ [^f]: Psalm 118:17 Heb _Yah_ [^g]: Psalm 118:18 Heb _Yah_ [^h]: Psalm 118:19 Heb _Yah_ [^i]: Psalm 118:22 Lit _head of the corner_ [^j]: Psalm 118:27 Lit _unto_
