---
Aliases: [Psalms 18]
previous: ['Ps 17']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 19']
---
# Psalms 18

***








###### 1 



"I love You, LORD, my strength." 







###### 2 



The LORD is my rock and my fortress and my savior, My God, my rock, in whom I take refuge; My shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold. 







###### 3 



I call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised, And I am saved from my enemies. 







###### 4 



The ropes of death encompassed me, And the torrents of [^b]destruction [^c]terrified me. 







###### 5 



The ropes of [^d]Sheol surrounded me; The snares of death confronted me. 







###### 6 



In my distress I called upon the LORD, And cried to my God for help; He heard my voice from His temple, And my cry for help before Him came into His ears. 







###### 7 



Then the earth shook and quaked; And the foundations of the mountains were trembling And were shaken, because He was angry. 







###### 8 



Smoke went up [^e]out of His nostrils, And fire from His mouth was devouring; Coals burned from it. 







###### 9 



He also bowed the heavens down low, and came down With thick darkness under His feet. 







###### 10 



He rode on a cherub and flew; And He sped on the wings of the wind. 







###### 11 



He made darkness His hiding place, His [^f]canopy around Him, Darkness of waters, thick clouds. 







###### 12 



From the brightness before Him passed His thick clouds, Hailstones and coals of fire. 







###### 13 



The LORD also thundered in the heavens, And the Most High uttered His voice, Hailstones and coals of fire. 







###### 14 



He sent out His arrows, and scattered them, And lightning flashes in abundance, and [^g]routed them. 







###### 15 



Then the channels of water appeared, And the foundations of the world were exposed By Your rebuke, LORD, At the blast of the breath of Your nostrils. 







###### 16 



He sent from on high, He took me; He drew me out of many waters. 







###### 17 



He saved me from my strong enemy, And from those who hated me, for they were too mighty for me. 







###### 18 



They confronted me in the day of my disaster, But the LORD was my support. 







###### 19 



He also brought me out into an open place; He rescued me, because He delighted in me. 







###### 20 



The LORD has rewarded me according to my righteousness; According to the cleanness of my hands He has repaid me. 







###### 21 



For I have kept the ways of the LORD, And have not acted wickedly against my God. 







###### 22 



For all His judgments were before me, And I did not put away His statutes from me. 







###### 23 



I was also [^h]blameless with Him, And I kept myself from my wrongdoing. 







###### 24 



Therefore the LORD has repaid me according to my righteousness, According to the cleanness of my hands in His eyes. 







###### 25 



With the faithful You show Yourself faithful; With the [^i]blameless You prove Yourself blameless; 







###### 26 



With the pure You show Yourself pure, And with the crooked You show Yourself [^j]astute. 







###### 27 



For You save an afflicted people, But You humiliate haughty eyes. 







###### 28 



For You light my lamp; The LORD my God illumines my darkness. 







###### 29 



For by You I can run at a [^k]troop of warriors; And by my God I can leap over a wall. 







###### 30 



As for God, His way is [^l]blameless; The word of the LORD is refined; He is a shield to all who take refuge in Him. 







###### 31 



For who is God, but the LORD? And who is a rock, except our God, 







###### 32 



The God who encircles me with strength, And [^m]makes my way [^n]blameless? 







###### 33 



He makes my feet like deer's _feet_, And sets me up on my high places. 







###### 34 



He trains my hands for battle, So that my arms can bend a bow of bronze. 







###### 35 



You have also given me the shield of Your salvation, And Your right hand upholds me; And Your [^o]gentleness makes me great. 







###### 36 



You enlarge my steps under me, And my [^p]feet have not slipped. 







###### 37 



I pursued my enemies and overtook them, And I did not turn back until they were consumed. 







###### 38 



I shattered them, so that they were not able to rise; They fell under my feet. 







###### 39 



For You have encircled me with strength for battle; You have forced those who rose up against me to bow down under me. 







###### 40 



You have also made my enemies turn their backs to me, And I [^q]destroyed those who hated me. 







###### 41 



They cried for help, but there was no one to save, _They cried_ to the LORD, but He did not answer them. 







###### 42 



Then I beat them fine like the dust before the wind; I emptied them out like the mud of the streets. 







###### 43 



You have rescued me from the contentions of the people; You have placed me as head of the nations; A people whom I have not known serve me. 







###### 44 



As soon as they hear, they obey me; Foreigners pretend to obey me. 







###### 45 



Foreigners lose heart, And come trembling out of their [^r]fortresses. 







###### 46 



The LORD lives, and blessed be my rock; And exalted be the God of my salvation, 







###### 47 



The God who executes vengeance for me, And subdues peoples under me. 







###### 48 



He rescues me from my enemies; You indeed lift me above those who rise up against me; You rescue me from a violent man. 







###### 49 



Therefore I will give thanks to You among the nations, LORD, And I will sing praises to Your name. 







###### 50 



He gives great [^s]salvation to His king, And shows faithfulness to His anointed, To David and his [^t]descendants forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 18 Title 2 Sam 22:1-51 [^b]: Psalm 18:4 Or _ungodliness_; Heb _Belial_ [^c]: Psalm 18:4 Or _were assailing_; or _terrifying_ [^d]: Psalm 18:5 I.e., the netherworld [^e]: Psalm 18:8 Or _in His wrath_ [^f]: Psalm 18:11 Or _pavilion_ [^g]: Psalm 18:14 Lit _confused_ [^h]: Psalm 18:23 Lit _complete_; or _having integrity_; or _perfect_ [^i]: Psalm 18:25 See note v 23 [^j]: Psalm 18:26 Lit _twisted_ [^k]: Psalm 18:29 Or _wall_ [^l]: Psalm 18:30 Or _perfect_ [^m]: Psalm 18:32 Or _has made_ [^n]: Psalm 18:32 Lit _complete_; or _having integrity_ [^o]: Psalm 18:35 Or _condescension_ [^p]: Psalm 18:36 Lit _ankles_ [^q]: Psalm 18:40 Or _silenced_ [^r]: Psalm 18:45 Or _prisons_ [^s]: Psalm 18:50 I.e., victories; lit _salvations_ [^t]: Psalm 18:50 Lit _seed_
