---
Aliases: [Psalms 109]
previous: ['Ps 108']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 110']
---
# Psalms 109

***








###### 1 



God of my praise, Do not be silent! 







###### 2 



For they have opened a [^a]wicked and deceitful mouth against me; They have spoken [^b]against me with a lying tongue. 







###### 3 



They have also surrounded me with words of hatred, And have fought against me without cause. 







###### 4 



In return for my love they act as my accusers; But I am _in_ prayer. 







###### 5 



So they have [^c]repaid me evil for good, And hatred for my love. 







###### 6 



Appoint a wicked person over him, And may an [^d]accuser stand at his right hand. 







###### 7 



When he is judged, may he come out guilty, And may his prayer become sin. 







###### 8 



May his days be few; May another take his office. 







###### 9 



May his children be fatherless, And his wife a widow. 







###### 10 



May his children wander about and beg; And may they seek _sustenance_ [^e]far from their ruined homes. 







###### 11 



May the creditor [^f]seize everything that he has, And may strangers plunder the product of his labor. 







###### 12 



May there be none to [^g]extend kindness to him, Nor any to be gracious to his fatherless children. 







###### 13 



May his descendants be [^h]eliminated; May their name be wiped out in a following generation. 







###### 14 



May the guilt of his fathers be remembered [^i]before the LORD, And do not let the sin of his mother be wiped out. 







###### 15 



May they be before the LORD continually, So that He may eliminate their memory from the earth; 







###### 16 



Because he did not remember to show mercy, But persecuted the afflicted and needy person, And the despondent in heart, to put _them_ to death. 







###### 17 



He also loved cursing, so it came to him; And he did not delight in blessing, so it was far from him. 







###### 18 



But he clothed himself with cursing as with his garment, And it entered [^j]his body like water, And like oil into his bones. 







###### 19 



May it be to him as a garment with which he covers himself, And as a belt which he constantly wears around himself. 







###### 20 



_May_ this _be_ the reward of my accusers from the LORD, And of those who speak evil against my soul. 







###### 21 



But You, [^k]God, the Lord, deal _kindly_ with me for the sake of Your name; Because Your mercy is good, rescue me; 







###### 22 



For I am afflicted and needy, And [^l]my heart is wounded within me. 







###### 23 



I am passing like a shadow when it lengthens; I am shaken off like the locust. 







###### 24 



My knees [^m]are weak from fasting, And my flesh has grown lean, without fatness. 







###### 25 



I also have become a disgrace to them; When they see me, they shake their head. 







###### 26 



Help me, LORD my God; Save me according to Your mercy. 







###### 27 



[^n]And may they know that this is Your hand; You, LORD, have done it. 







###### 28 



They will curse, but You bless; When they arise, they will be ashamed, But Your servant will be glad. 







###### 29 



[^o]May my accusers be clothed with dishonor, And [^p]may they cover themselves with their own shame as with a robe. 







###### 30 



With my mouth I will give thanks abundantly to the LORD; And I will praise Him in the midst of many. 







###### 31 



For He stands at the right hand of the needy, To save him from those who judge his soul. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 109:2 Lit _wicked mouth and the deceitful_ [^b]: Psalm 109:2 Lit _with_ [^c]: Psalm 109:5 Lit _laid upon me_ [^d]: Psalm 109:6 Or _adversary, Satan_ [^e]: Psalm 109:10 Or _out of their desolate places_ [^f]: Psalm 109:11 Lit _ensnare, strike at_ [^g]: Psalm 109:12 Lit _continue_ [^h]: Psalm 109:13 Lit _for cutting off_ [^i]: Psalm 109:14 Lit _to_ [^j]: Psalm 109:18 Lit _his inward parts_ [^k]: Psalm 109:21 Heb _YHWH_, usually rendered _Lord_ [^l]: Psalm 109:22 Lit _one has pierced my heart within me_ [^m]: Psalm 109:24 Or _totter_ [^n]: Psalm 109:27 Or _That they may know_ [^o]: Psalm 109:29 Or _My accusers will be_ [^p]: Psalm 109:29 Or _they will cover_
