---
Aliases: [Psalms 137]
previous: ['Ps 136']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 138']
---
# Psalms 137

***








###### 1 



By the rivers of Babylon, There we sat down and wept, When we remembered Zion. 







###### 2 



Upon the [^a]willows in the midst of it We hung our [^b]harps. 







###### 3 



For there our captors [^c]demanded of us [^d]songs, And our tormentors, jubilation, _saying_, "Sing for us one of the songs of Zion!" 







###### 4 



How can we sing the LORD's song In a foreign land? 







###### 5 



If I forget you, Jerusalem, May my right hand [^e]forget _its skill_. 







###### 6 



May my tongue cling to the roof of my mouth If I do not remember you, If I do not [^f]exalt Jerusalem Above my chief joy. 







###### 7 



Remember, LORD, against the sons of Edom The day of Jerusalem, Those who said, "Lay it bare, lay it bare To its foundation!" 







###### 8 



Daughter of Babylon, you [^g]devastated one, Blessed will be one who repays you With [^h]the retribution with which you have repaid us. 







###### 9 



Blessed will be one who seizes and dashes your children Against the rock. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 137:2 Or _poplars_ [^b]: Psalm 137:2 Lit _lyres_ [^c]: Psalm 137:3 Lit _asked_ [^d]: Psalm 137:3 Lit _words of song_ [^e]: Psalm 137:5 I.e., become useless [^f]: Psalm 137:6 Lit _cause to ascend_ [^g]: Psalm 137:8 Or _devastator_ [^h]: Psalm 137:8 Lit _your requital_
