---
Aliases: [Psalms 113]
previous: ['Ps 112']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 114']
---
# Psalms 113

***








###### 1 



[^a]Praise [^b]the LORD! Praise _Him_, you servants of the LORD, Praise the name of the LORD. 







###### 2 



Blessed be the name of the LORD From this time _on_ and forever. 







###### 3 



From [^c]the rising of the sun to its setting, The name of the LORD is to be praised. 







###### 4 



The LORD is high above all nations; His glory is above the heavens. 







###### 5 



Who is like the LORD our God, Who is enthroned on high, 







###### 6 



Who looks far down to The heavens and the earth? 







###### 7 



He raises the poor from the dust, He lifts the needy from the garbage heap, 







###### 8 



To seat _them_ with noblemen, With the noblemen of His people. 







###### 9 



He has the infertile woman live in the house _As_ a joyful mother of children. [^d]Praise [^e]the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 113:1 Or _Hallelujah! Praise_ [^b]: Psalm 113:1 Heb _Yah_ [^c]: Psalm 113:3 I.e., the east to the west [^d]: Psalm 113:9 Or _Hallelujah_! [^e]: Psalm 113:9 Heb _Yah_
