---
Aliases: [Psalms 140]
previous: ['Ps 139']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 141']
---
# Psalms 140

***








###### 1 



Rescue me, LORD, from evil people; Protect me from violent men 







###### 2 



Who devise evil things in _their_ hearts; They continually stir up wars. 







###### 3 



They sharpen their tongues like a snake; The venom of a viper is under their lips. Selah 







###### 4 



Keep me, LORD, from the hands of the wicked; Protect me from violent men Who [^a]intend to [^b]trip up my feet. 







###### 5 



The proud have hidden a trap for me, and snares; They have spread a net at the [^c]wayside; They have set snares for me. Selah 







###### 6 



I said to the LORD, "You are my God; Listen, LORD, to the sound of my pleadings. 







###### 7 



[^d]God the Lord, the strength of my salvation, You have covered my head on the day of [^e]battle. 







###### 8 



Do not grant, LORD, the desires of the wicked; Do not bring about his evil planning, _so that_ they _are not_ exalted. Selah 







###### 9 



"As for the head of those who surround me, May the harm of their lips cover them. 







###### 10 



May burning coals fall upon them; May they be cast into the fire, Into bottomless pits from which they cannot rise. 







###### 11 



May a [^f]slanderer not endure on the earth; May evil hunt a violent person [^g]violently." 







###### 12 



I know that the LORD will maintain the cause of the afflicted, And justice for the poor. 







###### 13 



Certainly the righteous will give thanks to Your name; The upright will dwell in Your presence. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 140:4 Or _devise_ [^b]: Psalm 140:4 Lit _push_ [^c]: Psalm 140:5 Lit _track_ [^d]: Psalm 140:7 Heb _YHWH_, usually rendered _Lord_ [^e]: Psalm 140:7 Lit _weapons_ [^f]: Psalm 140:11 Lit _man of tongue_ [^g]: Psalm 140:11 Lit _blow upon blow_
