---
Aliases: [Psalms 26]
previous: ['Ps 25']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 27']
---
# Psalms 26

***








###### 1 



[^a]Vindicate me, LORD, for I have walked in my integrity, And I have trusted in the LORD [^b]without wavering. 







###### 2 



Examine me, LORD, and put me to the test; Refine my [^c]mind and my heart. 







###### 3 



For Your [^d]goodness is before my eyes, And I have walked in Your truth. 







###### 4 



I do not sit with [^e]deceitful people, Nor will I go with [^f]pretenders. 







###### 5 



I hate the assembly of evildoers, And I will not sit with the wicked. 







###### 6 



I will wash my hands in innocence, And I will go around Your altar, LORD, 







###### 7 



That I may proclaim with the voice of thanksgiving And declare all Your [^g]wonders. 







###### 8 



LORD, I love the dwelling of Your house, And the place [^h]where Your glory remains. 







###### 9 



Do not [^i]take my soul away _along_ with sinners, Nor my life with men of bloodshed, 







###### 10 



In whose hands is a wicked scheme, And whose right hand is full of bribes. 







###### 11 



But as for me, I will walk in my integrity; Redeem me, and be gracious to me. 







###### 12 



My foot stands on level ground; In the congregations I will bless the LORD. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 26:1 Lit _Judge_ [^b]: Psalm 26:1 Lit _I do not slide_ [^c]: Psalm 26:2 Lit _kidneys_, figurative for inner man [^d]: Psalm 26:3 Or _faithfulness_ [^e]: Psalm 26:4 Or _worthless men_; lit _men of falsehood_ [^f]: Psalm 26:4 Or _dissemblers, hypocrites_ [^g]: Psalm 26:7 Or _miracles_ [^h]: Psalm 26:8 Lit _of the tabernacle of Your glory_ [^i]: Psalm 26:9 Lit _gather_
