---
Aliases: [Psalms 25]
previous: ['Ps 24']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 26']
---
# Psalms 25

***








###### 1 



To You, LORD, I lift up my soul. 







###### 2 



My God, in You I trust, Do not let me be ashamed; Do not let my enemies rejoice over me. 







###### 3 



Indeed, none of those who wait for You will be ashamed; [^a]Those who deal treacherously without cause will be ashamed. 







###### 4 



Make me know Your ways, LORD; Teach me Your paths. 







###### 5 



Lead me in Your truth and teach me, For You are the God of my salvation; For You I wait all the day. 







###### 6 



Remember, LORD, Your compassion and Your faithfulness, For they have been [^b]from of old. 







###### 7 



Do not remember the sins of my youth or my wrongdoings; Remember me according to Your faithfulness, For Your goodness' sake, LORD. 







###### 8 



The LORD is good and upright; Therefore He instructs sinners in the way. 







###### 9 



He leads the [^c]humble in justice, And He teaches the [^d]humble His way. 







###### 10 



All the paths of the LORD are faithfulness and truth To those who comply with His covenant and His testimonies. 







###### 11 



For the sake of Your name, LORD, Forgive my wrongdoing, for it is great. 







###### 12 



Who is the person who fears the LORD? He will instruct him in the way he should choose. 







###### 13 



His soul will dwell in [^e]prosperity, And his [^f]descendants will inherit the [^g]land. 







###### 14 



The [^h]secret of the LORD is for those who fear Him, [^i]And He will make them know His covenant. 







###### 15 



My eyes are continually toward the LORD, For He will [^j]rescue my feet from the net. 







###### 16 



Turn to me and be gracious to me, For I am lonely and afflicted. 







###### 17 



[^k]The troubles of my heart are enlarged; Bring me out of my distresses. 







###### 18 



Look at my misery and my trouble, And forgive all my sins. 







###### 19 



Look at my enemies, for they are many, And they hate me with violent hatred. 







###### 20 



Guard my soul and save me; Do not let me be ashamed, for I take refuge in You. 







###### 21 



Let integrity and uprightness protect me, For I wait for You. 







###### 22 



Redeem Israel, God, From all his distress. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 25:3 Or _Let those...be ashamed_ [^b]: Psalm 25:6 Or _everlasting_ [^c]: Psalm 25:9 Or _afflicted_ [^d]: Psalm 25:9 Or _afflicted_ [^e]: Psalm 25:13 Lit _good_ [^f]: Psalm 25:13 Lit _seed_ [^g]: Psalm 25:13 Or _earth_ [^h]: Psalm 25:14 Or _counsel_; or _intimacy_ [^i]: Psalm 25:14 Or _And His covenant, to make them know it_ [^j]: Psalm 25:15 Lit _bring out_ [^k]: Psalm 25:17 Some commentators _Relieve the troubles of my heart_
