---
Aliases: [Psalms 24]
previous: ['Ps 23']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 25']
---
# Psalms 24

***








###### 1 



The earth is the LORD's, and [^a]all it contains, The world, and those who live in it. 







###### 2 



For He has founded it upon the seas And established it upon the rivers. 







###### 3 



Who may ascend onto the hill of the LORD? And who may stand in His holy place? 







###### 4 



One who has clean hands and a pure heart, Who has not lifted up his soul to deceit And has not sworn deceitfully. 







###### 5 



He will receive a blessing from the LORD And [^b]righteousness from the God of his salvation. 







###### 6 



[^c]This is the generation of those who seek Him, Who seek Your face--_even_ Jacob. Selah 







###### 7 



Lift up your heads, you gates, And be lifted up, you [^d]ancient doors, That the King of glory may come in! 







###### 8 



Who is the King of glory? The LORD strong and mighty, The LORD mighty in battle. 







###### 9 



Lift up your heads, you gates, And lift _them_ up, you [^e]ancient doors, That the King of glory may come in! 







###### 10 



Who is this King of glory? The LORD of armies, He is the King of glory. Selah ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 24:1 Lit _its fullness_ [^b]: Psalm 24:5 I.e., as vindicated [^c]: Psalm 24:6 Or _Such_ [^d]: Psalm 24:7 Lit _everlasting_ [^e]: Psalm 24:9 Lit _everlasting_
