---
Aliases: [Psalms 23]
previous: ['Ps 22']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 24']
---
# Psalms 23

***








###### 1 



The LORD is my shepherd, I will not be in need. 







###### 2 



He lets me lie down in green pastures; He leads me beside [^a]quiet waters. 







###### 3 



He restores my soul; He guides me in the [^b]paths of righteousness For the sake of His name. 







###### 4 



Even though I walk through the [^c]valley of the shadow of death, I fear no [^d]evil, for You are with me; Your rod and Your staff, they comfort me. 







###### 5 



You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies; You [^e]have anointed my head with oil; My cup overflows. 







###### 6 



[^f]Certainly goodness and [^g]faithfulness will follow me all the days of my life, And my dwelling _will be_ in the house of the LORD [^h]forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 23:2 Lit _waters of rest_ [^b]: Psalm 23:3 Lit _tracks_ [^c]: Psalm 23:4 Or _valley of deep darkness_ [^d]: Psalm 23:4 Or _harm_ [^e]: Psalm 23:5 Or _anoint_ [^f]: Psalm 23:6 Or _Only_ [^g]: Psalm 23:6 Or _mercy_ [^h]: Psalm 23:6 Lit _for length of days_
