---
Aliases: [Psalms 28]
previous: ['Ps 27']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 29']
---
# Psalms 28

***








###### 1 



To You, LORD, I call; My rock, do not be deaf to me, For if You are silent to me, I will become like those who go down to the pit. 







###### 2 



Hear the sound of my pleadings when I cry to You for help, When I raise my hands toward [^a]Your holy sanctuary. 







###### 3 



Do not drag me away with the wicked And with those who practice injustice, Who speak peace with their neighbors, While evil is in their hearts. 







###### 4 



Give _back_ to them according to their work and according to the evil of their practices; Give _back_ to them according to the work of their hands; Repay them what is due them. 







###### 5 



Because they do not regard the works of the LORD Nor the deeds of His hands, He will tear them down and not build them up. 







###### 6 



Blessed be the LORD, Because He has heard the sound of my pleading. 







###### 7 



The LORD is my strength and my shield; My heart trusts in Him, and I am helped; Therefore my heart triumphs, And with my song I shall thank Him. 







###### 8 



The LORD is [^b]their strength, And He is a refuge of salvation to His anointed. 







###### 9 



Save Your people and bless Your inheritance; Be their shepherd also, and carry them forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 28:2 Lit _the innermost place of Your sanctuary_ [^b]: Psalm 28:8 A few mss and ancient versions _the strength of His people_
