---
Aliases: [Psalms 27]
previous: ['Ps 26']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 28']
---
# Psalms 27

***








###### 1 



The LORD is my light and my salvation; Whom should I fear? The LORD is the [^a]defense of my life; Whom should I dread? 







###### 2 



When evildoers came upon me to devour my flesh, My adversaries and my enemies, they stumbled and fell. 







###### 3 



If an army encamps against me, My heart will not fear; If war arises against me, In _spite of_ this I am confident. 







###### 4 



One thing I have asked from the LORD, that I shall seek: That I may dwell in the house of the LORD all the days of my life, To behold the [^b]beauty of the LORD And to [^c]meditate in His temple. 







###### 5 



For on the day of trouble He will conceal me in His [^d]tabernacle; He will hide me in the secret place of His tent; He will lift me up on a rock. 







###### 6 



And now my head will be lifted up above my enemies around me, And I will offer sacrifices in His tent [^e]with shouts of joy; I will sing, yes, I will sing praises to the LORD. 







###### 7 



Hear, LORD, when I cry with my voice, And be gracious to me and answer me. 







###### 8 



_When You said_, "Seek My face," my heart said to You, "I shall seek Your face, LORD." 







###### 9 



Do not hide Your face from me, Do not turn Your servant away in anger; You have been my help; Do not abandon me nor forsake me, God of my salvation! 







###### 10 



[^f]For my father and my mother have forsaken me, But the LORD will take me up. 







###### 11 



Teach me Your way, LORD, And lead me on a level path Because of my enemies. 







###### 12 



Do not turn me over to the [^g]desire of my enemies, For false witnesses have risen against me, And _the_ violent witness. 







###### 13 



I certainly believed that I would see the goodness of the LORD In the land of the living. 







###### 14 



Wait for the LORD; Be strong and let your heart take courage; Yes, wait for the LORD. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 27:1 Or _refuge_ [^b]: Psalm 27:4 Lit _delightfulness_ [^c]: Psalm 27:4 Lit _inquire_ [^d]: Psalm 27:5 Or _shelter_ [^e]: Psalm 27:6 Lit _of shouts_ [^f]: Psalm 27:10 Or _If my father...forsake me, Then the _Lord__ [^g]: Psalm 27:12 Lit _soul_
