---
Aliases: [Psalms 29]
previous: ['Ps 28']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 30']
---
# Psalms 29

***








###### 1 



Ascribe to the LORD, [^a]sons of the mighty, Ascribe to the LORD glory and strength. 







###### 2 



Ascribe to the LORD the glory [^b]due His name; Worship the LORD in holy attire. 







###### 3 



The voice of the LORD is on the waters; The God of glory thunders, The LORD is over [^c]many waters. 







###### 4 



The voice of the LORD is powerful, The voice of the LORD is majestic. 







###### 5 



The voice of the LORD breaks the cedars; Yes, the LORD breaks the cedars of Lebanon in pieces. 







###### 6 



He makes Lebanon skip like a calf, And Sirion like a young wild ox. 







###### 7 



The voice of the LORD divides [^d]flames of fire. 







###### 8 



The voice of the LORD [^e]shakes the wilderness; The LORD shakes the wilderness of Kadesh. 







###### 9 



The voice of the LORD makes the deer give birth And strips the forests bare; And in His temple everything says, "Glory!" 







###### 10 



The LORD sat _as King_ at the flood; Yes, the LORD sits as King forever. 







###### 11 



[^f]The LORD will give strength to His people; [^g]The LORD will bless His people with peace. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 29:1 Lit _sons of gods_ [^b]: Psalm 29:2 Lit _of His name_ [^c]: Psalm 29:3 Or _great_ [^d]: Psalm 29:7 I.e., lightning [^e]: Psalm 29:8 Or _causes...to whirl_ [^f]: Psalm 29:11 Or _May the _Lord_ give_ [^g]: Psalm 29:11 Or _May the _Lord_ bless_
