---
Aliases: [Psalms 21]
previous: ['Ps 20']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 22']
---
# Psalms 21

***








###### 1 



LORD, in Your strength the king will be glad, And in Your [^a]salvation how greatly he will rejoice! 







###### 2 



You have given him his heart's desire, And You have not withheld the request of his lips. Selah 







###### 3 



For You meet him with the blessings of good things; You set a crown of pure gold on his head. 







###### 4 



He asked for life from You, You gave it to him, Length of days forever and ever. 







###### 5 



His glory is great through Your [^b]salvation, Splendor and majesty You place upon him. 







###### 6 



For You make him [^c]most blessed forever; You make him joyful with the joy of Your presence. 







###### 7 



For the king trusts in the LORD, And through the faithfulness of the Most High he will not be shaken. 







###### 8 



Your hand will find all your enemies; Your right hand will find those who hate you. 







###### 9 



You will make them as a fiery oven in the time [^d]of your anger; The LORD will swallow them up in His wrath, And fire will devour them. 







###### 10 



You will eliminate their [^e]descendants from the earth, And their [^f]children from among the sons of mankind. 







###### 11 



Though they [^g]intended evil against You _And_ devised a plot, They will not succeed. 







###### 12 



For You will make them turn their back; You will take aim at their faces with Your bowstrings. 







###### 13 



Be exalted, LORD, in Your strength; We will sing and praise Your power. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 21:1 Or _victory_ [^b]: Psalm 21:5 Or _victory_ [^c]: Psalm 21:6 Lit _blessings_ [^d]: Psalm 21:9 Or _of your presence_ [^e]: Psalm 21:10 Lit _fruit_ [^f]: Psalm 21:10 Lit _seed_ [^g]: Psalm 21:11 Lit _stretched out_
