---
Aliases: [Psalms 20]
previous: ['Ps 19']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 21']
---
# Psalms 20

***








###### 1 



May the LORD answer you on a day of trouble! May the name of the God of Jacob [^a]protect you! 







###### 2 



May He send you help from the sanctuary, And support you from Zion! 







###### 3 



May He remember all your meal offerings And [^b]accept your burnt offering! Selah 







###### 4 



May He grant you your heart's desire And fulfill your whole plan! 







###### 5 



[^c]We will sing for joy over your [^d]victory, And in the name of our God we will set up our banners. May the LORD fulfill all your desires. 







###### 6 



Now I know that the LORD saves His anointed; He will answer him from His holy heaven With the [^e]saving strength of His right hand. 







###### 7 



Some _praise their_ chariots and some _their_ horses, But we will praise the name of the LORD, our God. 







###### 8 



They have bowed down and fallen, But we have risen and stood upright. 







###### 9 



[^f]Save, LORD; May the King answer us on the day we call. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 20:1 Lit _make you high and inaccessible_ [^b]: Psalm 20:3 Lit _consider your...as fat_ [^c]: Psalm 20:5 Or _Let’s sing_ [^d]: Psalm 20:5 Or _salvation_ [^e]: Psalm 20:6 Or _mighty deeds of the victory of His right hand_ [^f]: Psalm 20:9 Or _O _Lord___, save the king; answer us_
