---
Aliases: [Psalms 22]
previous: ['Ps 21']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 23']
---
# Psalms 22

***








###### 1 



My God, my God, why have You forsaken me? Far from my [^b]help are the words of my [^c]groaning. 







###### 2 



My God, I cry out by day, but You do not answer; And by night, but [^d]I have no rest. 







###### 3 



Yet You are holy, You who [^e]are enthroned upon the praises of Israel. 







###### 4 



In You our fathers trusted; They trusted and You rescued them. 







###### 5 



To You they cried out and they fled to safety; In You they trusted and were not [^f]disappointed. 







###### 6 



But I am a worm and not a person, A disgrace of mankind and despised by the people. 







###### 7 



All who see me deride me; They [^g]sneer, they shake their heads, _saying_, 







###### 8 



"[^h]Turn [^i]_him_ over to the LORD; let Him save him; Let Him rescue him, because He delights in him." 







###### 9 



Yet You are He who brought me forth from the womb; You made me trust _when_ upon my mother's breasts. 







###### 10 



I was cast upon You from [^j]birth; You have been my God from my mother's womb. 







###### 11 



Do not be far from me, for [^k]trouble is near; For there is no one to help. 







###### 12 



Many bulls have surrounded me; Strong _bulls_ of Bashan have encircled me. 







###### 13 



They open their mouths wide at me, As a ravening and roaring lion. 







###### 14 



I am poured out like water, And all my bones are out of joint; My heart is like wax; It is melted within [^l]me. 







###### 15 



My strength is dried up like a piece of pottery, And my tongue clings to my jaws; And You lay me [^m]in the dust of death. 







###### 16 



For dogs have surrounded me; [^n]A band of evildoers has encompassed me; [^o]They pierced my hands and my feet. 







###### 17 



I can count all my bones. They look, they stare at me; 







###### 18 



They divide my garments among them, And they cast lots for my clothing. 







###### 19 



But You, LORD, do not be far away; _You who are_ my help, hurry to my assistance. 







###### 20 



Save my [^p]soul from the sword, My only _life_ from the [^q]power of the dog. 







###### 21 



Save me from the lion's mouth; From the horns of the wild oxen You answer me. 







###### 22 



I will proclaim Your name to my brothers; In the midst of the assembly I will praise You. 







###### 23 



You who fear the LORD, praise Him; All you [^r]descendants of Jacob, glorify Him, And stand in awe of Him, all you [^s]descendants of Israel. 







###### 24 



For He has not despised nor scorned the suffering of the afflicted; Nor has He hidden His face from him; But when he cried to Him for help, He heard. 







###### 25 



From You _comes_ my praise in the great assembly; I shall pay my vows before those who fear Him. 







###### 26 



The [^t]afflicted will eat and be satisfied; Those who seek Him will praise the LORD. May your heart live forever! 







###### 27 



All the ends of the earth will remember and turn to the LORD, And all the families of the nations will worship before [^u]You. 







###### 28 



For the kingdom is the LORD's And He rules over the nations. 







###### 29 



All the [^v]prosperous of the earth will eat and worship, All those who go down to the dust will kneel before Him, Even he who [^w]cannot keep his soul alive. 







###### 30 



A [^x]posterity will serve Him; It will be told of the Lord to the _coming_ generation. 







###### 31 



They will come and will declare His righteousness To a people who will be born, that He has performed _it_. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 22 Title Lit _the doe of the morning_ [^b]: Psalm 22:1 Or _deliverance_ [^c]: Psalm 22:1 Lit _screaming_ [^d]: Psalm 22:2 Lit _there is no silence for me_ [^e]: Psalm 22:3 Or _inhabit the praises_ [^f]: Psalm 22:5 Or _ashamed_ [^g]: Psalm 22:7 Lit _open with the lip_ [^h]: Psalm 22:8 Lit _Roll...away to_ [^i]: Psalm 22:8 Or it [^j]: Psalm 22:10 Lit a _womb_ [^k]: Psalm 22:11 Or _distress_ [^l]: Psalm 22:14 Lit _my inward parts_ [^m]: Psalm 22:15 Lit _to_ [^n]: Psalm 22:16 Or _An assembly_ [^o]: Psalm 22:16 Another reading is _Like a lion, my..._ [^p]: Psalm 22:20 Or _life_ [^q]: Psalm 22:20 Lit _paw_ [^r]: Psalm 22:23 Lit _seed_ [^s]: Psalm 22:23 Lit _seed_ [^t]: Psalm 22:26 Or _poor_ [^u]: Psalm 22:27 Some ancient versions _Him_ [^v]: Psalm 22:29 Lit _fat ones_ [^w]: Psalm 22:29 Or _did not_ [^x]: Psalm 22:30 Lit _seed_
