---
Aliases: [Psalms 37]
previous: ['Ps 36']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 38']
---
# Psalms 37

***








###### 1 



Do not get upset because of evildoers, Do not be envious of wrongdoers. 







###### 2 



For they will wither quickly like the grass, And decay like the green plants. 







###### 3 



Trust in the LORD and do good; Live in the land and [^a]cultivate faithfulness. 







###### 4 



Delight yourself in the LORD; And He will give you the desires of your heart. 







###### 5 



Commit your way to the LORD, Trust also in Him, and He will do it. 







###### 6 



He will bring out your righteousness as the light, And your judgment as the noonday. 







###### 7 



[^b]Rest in the LORD and wait [^c]patiently for Him; Do not get upset because of one who is successful in his way, Because of the person who carries out wicked schemes. 







###### 8 



Cease from anger and abandon wrath; Do not get upset; _it leads_ only to evildoing. 







###### 9 



For evildoers will be eliminated, But those who wait for the LORD, they will inherit the land. 







###### 10 



Yet a little while and the wicked person will be no more; And you will look carefully for his place and he will not be _there_. 







###### 11 



But the humble will inherit the land And will delight themselves in abundant prosperity. 







###### 12 



The wicked plots against the righteous, And gnashes at him with his teeth. 







###### 13 



The Lord laughs at him, For He sees that his day is coming. 







###### 14 



The wicked have drawn the sword and bent their bow To take down the afflicted and the needy, To kill off those who are upright in conduct. 







###### 15 



Their sword will enter their own heart, And their bows will be broken. 







###### 16 



Better is the little of the righteous Than the abundance of many wicked. 







###### 17 



For the arms of the wicked will be broken, But the LORD sustains the righteous. 







###### 18 



The LORD knows the days of the [^d]blameless, And their inheritance will be forever. 







###### 19 



They will not be ashamed in the time of evil, And in the days of famine they will have plenty. 







###### 20 



But the wicked will perish; And the enemies of the LORD will be like the [^e]glory of the pastures, They vanish--like smoke they vanish away. 







###### 21 



The wicked borrows and does not pay back, But the righteous is gracious and gives. 







###### 22 



For those blessed by Him will inherit the land, But those cursed by Him will be eliminated. 







###### 23 



The steps of a man are established by the LORD, And He delights in his way. 







###### 24 



When he falls, he will not be hurled down, Because the LORD is the One [^f]who holds his hand. 







###### 25 



I have been young and now I am old, Yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken Or his [^g]descendants begging for bread. 







###### 26 



All day long he is gracious and lends, And his [^h]descendants are a blessing. 







###### 27 



Turn from evil and do good, So that you will dwell forever. 







###### 28 



For the LORD loves [^i]justice And does not abandon His godly ones; They are protected forever, But the [^j]descendants of the wicked will be eliminated. 







###### 29 



The righteous will inherit the land And dwell in it forever. 







###### 30 



The mouth of the righteous utters wisdom, And his tongue speaks justice. 







###### 31 



The Law of his God is in his heart; His steps do not slip. 







###### 32 



The wicked spies upon the righteous And seeks to kill him. 







###### 33 



The LORD will not leave him in his hand Or let him be condemned when he is judged. 







###### 34 



Wait for the LORD and keep His way, And He will exalt you to inherit the land; When the wicked are eliminated, you will see it. 







###### 35 



I have seen a wicked, violent person Spreading himself like a luxuriant [^k]tree in its native soil. 







###### 36 



Then he passed away, and behold, he was no more; I searched for him, but he could not be found. 







###### 37 



Observe the [^l]blameless person, and look at the upright; For the person of peace will have a future. 







###### 38 



But wrongdoers will altogether be destroyed; The future of the wicked will be eliminated. 







###### 39 



But the salvation of the righteous is from the LORD; He is their strength in time of trouble. 







###### 40 



The LORD helps them and rescues them; He rescues them from the wicked and saves them, Because they take refuge in Him. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 37:3 Or _feed securely_; or _feed on His faithfulness_ [^b]: Psalm 37:7 Or _Be still_ [^c]: Psalm 37:7 Or _longingly_ [^d]: Psalm 37:18 Lit _complete_; or _perfect_ [^e]: Psalm 37:20 I.e., flowers [^f]: Psalm 37:24 Or _who sustains him with His hand_ [^g]: Psalm 37:25 Lit _seed_ [^h]: Psalm 37:26 Lit _seed_ [^i]: Psalm 37:28 Lit _judgment_ [^j]: Psalm 37:28 Lit _seed_ [^k]: Psalm 37:35 Lit _native_; Heb obscure [^l]: Psalm 37:37 Lit _complete_; or _perfect_
