---
Aliases: [Psalms 30]
previous: ['Ps 29']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 31']
---
# Psalms 30

***








###### 1 



I will exalt You, LORD, for You have lifted me up, And have not let my enemies rejoice over me. 







###### 2 



LORD my God, I cried to You for help, and You healed me. 







###### 3 



LORD, You have brought up my soul from [^a]Sheol; You have kept me alive, [^b]that I would not go down to the pit. 







###### 4 



Sing praise to the LORD, you His godly ones, And praise the mention of His holiness. 







###### 5 



For His anger is but for a moment, His favor is for a lifetime; Weeping may last for the night, But a shout of joy _comes_ in the morning. 







###### 6 



Now as for me, I said in my prosperity, "I will never be moved." 







###### 7 



LORD, by Your favor You have made my mountain to stand strong; You hid Your face, I was dismayed. 







###### 8 



To You, LORD, I called, And to the Lord I pleaded for compassion: 







###### 9 



"What gain is there in my blood, if I go down to the pit? Will the dust praise You? Will it declare Your faithfulness? 







###### 10 



"Hear, LORD, and be gracious to me; LORD, be my helper." 







###### 11 



You have turned my mourning into dancing for me; You have untied my sackcloth and encircled me with joy, 







###### 12 



That _my_ [^c]soul may sing praise to You and not be silent. LORD my God, I will give thanks to You forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 30:3 I.e., the netherworld [^b]: Psalm 30:3 Some mss _from among those who go down_ [^c]: Psalm 30:12 Lit _glory_
