---
Aliases: [Psalms 36]
previous: ['Ps 35']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 37']
---
# Psalms 36

***








###### 1 



[^a]Wrongdoing speaks to the ungodly within [^b]his heart; There is no fear of God before his eyes. 







###### 2 



For it flatters him in his _own_ eyes Concerning the discovery of his wrongful deed _and_ the hatred _of it_. 







###### 3 



The words of his mouth are wickedness and deceit; He has ceased to [^c]be wise _and_ to do good. 







###### 4 



He plans wickedness on his bed; He sets himself on a path that is not good; He does not reject evil. 







###### 5 



Your mercy, LORD, [^d]extends to the heavens, Your faithfulness _reaches_ to the skies. 







###### 6 



Your righteousness is like the [^e]mountains of God; Your judgments are _like_ the great deep. LORD, You [^f]protect mankind and animals. 







###### 7 



How precious is Your mercy, God! And the sons of mankind take refuge in the shadow of Your wings. 







###### 8 



They drink their fill of the [^g]abundance of Your house; And You allow them to drink _from_ the river of Your delights. 







###### 9 



For the fountain of life is with You; In Your light we see light. 







###### 10 



Prolong Your mercy to those who know You, And Your righteousness to the upright of heart. 







###### 11 



May the foot of pride not come upon me, And may the hand of the wicked not drive me away. 







###### 12 



Those who do injustice have fallen there; They have been thrust down and cannot rise. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 36:1 Or _Rebellion_ [^b]: Psalm 36:1 Another reading is _my heart_ [^c]: Psalm 36:3 Or _understand to do good_ [^d]: Psalm 36:5 Lit _is in_ [^e]: Psalm 36:6 Or _mighty mountains_ [^f]: Psalm 36:6 Or _help_ [^g]: Psalm 36:8 Lit _fatness_
