---
Aliases: [Psalms 38]
previous: ['Ps 37']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 39']
---
# Psalms 38

***








###### 1 



LORD, do not rebuke me in Your wrath, And do not punish me in Your burning anger. 







###### 2 



For Your arrows have sunk deep into me, And Your hand has pressed down on me. 







###### 3 



There is no healthy part in my flesh because of Your indignation; There is no health in my bones because of my sin. 







###### 4 



For my guilty deeds have gone over my head; Like a heavy burden they weigh too much for me. 







###### 5 



My [^a]wounds grow foul _and_ fester Because of my foolishness. 







###### 6 



I am bent over and greatly bowed down; I go in mourning all day long. 







###### 7 



For my [^b]sides are filled with burning, And there is no healthy part in my flesh. 







###### 8 



I feel faint and [^c]badly crushed; I [^d]groan because of the [^e]agitation of my heart. 







###### 9 



Lord, all my desire is [^f]before You; And my sighing is not hidden from You. 







###### 10 



My heart throbs, my strength fails me; And the light of my eyes, even [^g]that [^h]has gone from me. 







###### 11 



My [^i]loved ones and my friends stand aloof from my plague; And my kinsmen stand far away. 







###### 12 



Those who seek my life lay snares _for me_; And those who seek to injure me have [^j]threatened destruction, And they plot deception all day long. 







###### 13 



But I, like a person who is deaf, do not hear; And _I am_ like a person who cannot speak, _who_ does not open his mouth. 







###### 14 



Yes, I am like a person who does not hear, And in whose mouth are no arguments. 







###### 15 



For I wait for You, LORD; You will answer, Lord my God. 







###### 16 



For I said, "May they not rejoice over me, _Who_, when my foot slips, would exalt themselves over me." 







###### 17 



For I am ready to fall, And my [^k]sorrow is continually before me. 







###### 18 



For I admit my guilt; I am full of anxiety because of my sin. 







###### 19 



But my enemies are vigorous _and_ [^l]strong, And those who wrongfully hate me are many. 







###### 20 



And those who repay evil for good, They become my enemies, because I follow what is good. 







###### 21 



Do not abandon me, LORD; My God, do not be far from me! 







###### 22 



Hurry to help me, Lord, my salvation! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 38:5 Or _stripes_ [^b]: Psalm 38:7 Lit _loins_ [^c]: Psalm 38:8 Or _greatly_ [^d]: Psalm 38:8 Lit _roar_ [^e]: Psalm 38:8 Lit _growling_ [^f]: Psalm 38:9 Or known _to You_ [^g]: Psalm 38:10 Lit _they have_ [^h]: Psalm 38:10 Lit _is not with me_ [^i]: Psalm 38:11 Or _lovers_ [^j]: Psalm 38:12 Lit _spoken_ [^k]: Psalm 38:17 Lit _pain_ [^l]: Psalm 38:19 Or _numerous_
