---
Aliases: [Psalms 39]
previous: ['Ps 38']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 40']
---
# Psalms 39

***








###### 1 



I said, "I will keep watch over my ways So that I do not sin with my tongue; I will keep watch over my mouth as with a muzzle While the wicked are in my presence." 







###### 2 



I was mute [^b]and silent, I [^c]refused to say _even something_ good, And my pain was stirred up. 







###### 3 



My heart was hot within me, While I was musing the fire burned; _Then_ I spoke with my tongue: 







###### 4 



"LORD, let me know my end, And what is the extent of my days; Let me know how transient I am. 







###### 5 



Behold, You have made my days _like_ [^d]hand widths, And my lifetime as nothing in Your sight; Certainly all mankind standing is [^e]a mere breath. Selah 







###### 6 



Certainly every person walks around as [^f]a fleeting shadow; They certainly make an uproar for nothing; He amasses _riches_ and does not know who will gather them. 







###### 7 



"And now, Lord, for what do I wait? My hope is in You. 







###### 8 



Save me from all my wrongdoings; Do not make me an _object of_ reproach for the foolish. 







###### 9 



I have become mute, I do not open my mouth, Because it is You who have done _it_. 







###### 10 



Remove Your plague from me; Because of the opposition of Your hand I am [^g]perishing. 







###### 11 



With rebukes You punish a person for wrongdoing; You consume like a moth what is precious to him; Certainly all mankind is mere breath! Selah 







###### 12 



"Hear my prayer, LORD, and listen to my cry for help; Do not be silent to my tears; For I am a stranger with You, One who lives abroad, like all my fathers. 







###### 13 



Turn Your eyes away from me, that I may become cheerful _again_ Before I depart and am no more." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 39 Title 1 Chr 16:41 [^b]: Psalm 39:2 Lit with _silence_ [^c]: Psalm 39:2 Lit _was silent from good_ [^d]: Psalm 39:5 I.e., short [^e]: Psalm 39:5 Or _altogether breath_ [^f]: Psalm 39:6 Lit _an image_ [^g]: Psalm 39:10 Or _wasting away_
