---
Aliases: [Psalms 33]
previous: ['Ps 32']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 34']
---
# Psalms 33

***








###### 1 



Sing for joy in the LORD, you righteous ones; Praise is becoming to the upright. 







###### 2 



Give thanks to the LORD with the lyre; Sing praises to Him with a harp of ten strings. 







###### 3 



Sing to Him a new song; Play skillfully with a shout of joy. 







###### 4 



For the word of the LORD is right, And all His work is _done_ in faithfulness. 







###### 5 



He loves righteousness and justice; The earth is full of the goodness of the LORD. 







###### 6 



By the word of the LORD the heavens were made, And by the breath of His mouth all their [^a]lights. 







###### 7 



He gathers the waters of the sea together [^b]as a heap; He puts the depths in storehouses. 







###### 8 



Let all the earth fear the LORD; Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of Him. 







###### 9 



For He spoke, and it was done; He commanded, and it [^c]stood firm. 







###### 10 



The LORD nullifies the plan of nations; He frustrates the plans of peoples. 







###### 11 



The plan of the LORD stands forever, The plans of His heart from generation to generation. 







###### 12 



Blessed is the nation whose God is the LORD, The people He has chosen for His own inheritance. 







###### 13 



The LORD looks from heaven; He sees all the sons of mankind; 







###### 14 



From His dwelling place He looks out On all the inhabitants of the earth, 







###### 15 



He who fashions [^d]the hearts of them all, He who understands all their works. 







###### 16 



The king is not saved by a mighty army; A warrior is not rescued by great strength. 







###### 17 



A horse is a false hope for victory; Nor does it rescue anyone by its great strength. 







###### 18 



Behold, the eye of the LORD is on those who fear Him, On those who wait for His faithfulness, 







###### 19 



To rescue their soul from death And to keep them alive in famine. 







###### 20 



Our soul waits for the LORD; He is our help and our shield. 







###### 21 



For our heart rejoices in Him, Because we trust in His holy name. 







###### 22 



Let Your favor, LORD, be upon us, Just as we have waited for You. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 33:6 Lit _host_; i.e., sun, stars, etc. [^b]: Psalm 33:7 Some ancient versions _in a water skin_; i.e., container [^c]: Psalm 33:9 Or _stood forth_ [^d]: Psalm 33:15 Or _their heart together_
