---
Aliases: [Psalms 34]
previous: ['Ps 33']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 35']
---
# Psalms 34

***








###### 1 



I will bless the LORD at all times; His praise shall continually be in my mouth. 







###### 2 



My soul will make its boast in the LORD; The humble will hear it and rejoice. 







###### 3 



Exalt the LORD with me, And let's exalt His name together. 







###### 4 



I sought the LORD and He answered me, And rescued me from all my fears. 







###### 5 



They looked to Him and were radiant, And their faces will never be ashamed. 







###### 6 



This wretched man cried out, and the LORD heard _him_, And saved him out of all his troubles. 







###### 7 



The angel of the LORD encamps around those who fear Him, And rescues them. 







###### 8 



Taste and see that the LORD is good; How blessed is the man who takes refuge in Him! 







###### 9 



Fear the LORD, you His saints; For to those who fear Him there is no lack _of anything_. 







###### 10 



The young lions do without and suffer hunger; But they who seek the LORD will not lack any good thing. 







###### 11 



Come, you children, listen to me; I will teach you the fear of the LORD. 







###### 12 



Who is the person who desires life And loves _length of_ days, that he may see good? 







###### 13 



Keep your tongue from evil And your lips from speaking deceit. 







###### 14 



Turn from evil and do good; Seek peace and pursue it. 







###### 15 



The eyes of the LORD are toward the righteous, And His ears are toward their cry for help. 







###### 16 



The face of the LORD is against evildoers, To eliminate the memory of them from the earth. 







###### 17 



_The righteous_ cry out, and the LORD hears And rescues them from all their troubles. 







###### 18 



The LORD is near to the brokenhearted And saves those who are [^b]crushed in spirit. 







###### 19 



The afflictions of the righteous are many, But the LORD rescues him from them all. 







###### 20 



He protects all his bones, Not one of them is broken. 







###### 21 



Evil will bring death to the wicked, And those who hate the righteous will suffer for their guilt. 







###### 22 



The LORD redeems the souls of His servants, And none of those who take refuge in Him will suffer for their guilt. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 34 Title Possibly a title of King Achish of Gath, see 1 Sam 21:10-15 [^b]: Psalm 34:18 Or _contrite_
