---
Aliases: [Psalms 32]
previous: ['Ps 31']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 33']
---
# Psalms 32

***








###### 1 



How blessed is he whose wrongdoing is forgiven, Whose sin is covered! 







###### 2 



How blessed is a person whose guilt the LORD does not take into account, And in whose spirit there is no deceit! 







###### 3 



When I kept silent _about my sin_, my [^b]body wasted away Through my [^c]groaning all day long. 







###### 4 



For day and night Your hand was heavy upon me; My [^d]vitality failed _as_ with the dry heat of summer. Selah 







###### 5 



I acknowledged my sin to You, And I did not hide my guilt; I said, "I will confess my wrongdoings to the LORD"; And You forgave the guilt of my sin. Selah 







###### 6 



Therefore, let everyone who is godly pray to You [^e]in a time when You may be found; Certainly in a flood of great waters, they will not reach him. 







###### 7 



You are my hiding place; You keep me from trouble; You surround me with [^f]songs of deliverance. Selah 







###### 8 



I will instruct you and teach you in the way which you should go; I will advise you with My eye upon you. 







###### 9 



Do not be like the horse or like the mule, which have no understanding, Whose trappings include bit and bridle to hold them in check, _Otherwise_ they will not come near to you. 







###### 10 



The sorrows of the wicked are many, But the one who trusts in the LORD, goodness will surround him. 







###### 11 



Be glad in the LORD and rejoice, you righteous ones; And shout for joy, all you who are upright in heart. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 32 Title Possibly _Contemplative_; or _Didactic_; or _Skillful Psalm_ [^b]: Psalm 32:3 Or _bones, substance_ [^c]: Psalm 32:3 Lit _roaring_ [^d]: Psalm 32:4 Lit _life juices were turned into the drought of summer_ [^e]: Psalm 32:6 Lit _in a time of finding out_ [^f]: Psalm 32:7 Or _shouts_
