---
Aliases: [Psalms 40]
previous: ['Ps 39']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 41']
---
# Psalms 40

***








###### 1 



I waited [^a]patiently for the LORD; And He reached down to me and heard my cry. 







###### 2 



He brought me up out of the pit of [^b]destruction, out of the mud; And He set my feet on a rock, making my footsteps firm. 







###### 3 



He put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God; Many will see and fear And will trust in the LORD. 







###### 4 



How blessed is the man who has made the LORD his trust, And has not turned to the [^c]proud, nor to those who become involved in falsehood. 







###### 5 



Many, LORD my God, are the wonders which You have done, And Your thoughts toward us; There is no one to compare with You. If I would declare and speak of them, They would be too numerous to count. 







###### 6 



You have not desired [^d]sacrifice and meal offering; You have [^e]opened my ears; You have not required burnt offering and sin offering. 







###### 7 



Then I said, "Behold, I have come; It is [^f]written of me in the scroll of the book. 







###### 8 



I delight to do Your will, my God; Your Law is within my [^g]heart." 







###### 9 



I have proclaimed good news of righteousness in the great congregation; Behold, I will not restrain my lips, LORD, You know. 







###### 10 



I have not hidden Your righteousness within my heart; I have spoken of Your faithfulness and Your salvation; I have not concealed Your mercy and Your truth from the great congregation. 







###### 11 



You, LORD, will not withhold Your compassion from me; [^h]Your mercy and Your truth will continually watch over me. 







###### 12 



For evils beyond number have surrounded me; My guilty deeds have overtaken me, so that I am not able to see; They are more numerous than the hairs of my head, And my heart has [^i]failed me. 







###### 13 



Be pleased, LORD, to rescue me; Hurry, LORD, to help me. 







###### 14 



May those be ashamed and humiliated together Who seek my [^j]life to destroy it; May those be turned back and dishonored Who delight [^k]in my hurt. 







###### 15 



May those be [^l]appalled because of their shame Who say to me, "Aha, aha!" 







###### 16 



May all who seek You rejoice and be glad in You; May those who love Your salvation continually say, "The LORD be exalted!" 







###### 17 



But I am afflicted and needy; May the Lord be mindful of me. You are my help and my savior; Do not delay, my God. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 40:1 Or _intently_ [^b]: Psalm 40:2 Lit _wasteland_; i.e., the underworld [^c]: Psalm 40:4 Or _enemies_ [^d]: Psalm 40:6 I.e., blood sacrifice [^e]: Psalm 40:6 Lit _dug_; or possibly _pierced_ [^f]: Psalm 40:7 Or _prescribed for_ [^g]: Psalm 40:8 Lit _inner being_ [^h]: Psalm 40:11 Or _May...preserve_ [^i]: Psalm 40:12 Lit _forsaken_ [^j]: Psalm 40:14 Or _soul_ [^k]: Psalm 40:14 Or _to injure me_ [^l]: Psalm 40:15 Or _desolated_
