---
Aliases: [Psalms 48]
previous: ['Ps 47']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 49']
---
# Psalms 48

***








###### 1 



Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised In the city of our God, His holy mountain. 







###### 2 



Beautiful in elevation, the joy of the whole earth, Is Mount Zion _in_ the far north, The city of the great King. 







###### 3 



In its palaces, God has made Himself known as a stronghold. 







###### 4 



For, behold, the kings arrived, They passed by together. 







###### 5 



They saw _it_, then they were amazed; They were terrified, they fled in a hurry. 







###### 6 



[^a]Panic seized them there, Anguish, as _that_ of a woman in childbirth. 







###### 7 



With the east wind You smash the ships of Tarshish. 







###### 8 



Just as we have heard, so have we seen In the city of the LORD of armies, in the city of our God; God will establish her forever. Selah 







###### 9 



We have thought over Your goodness, God, In the midst of Your temple. 







###### 10 



As is Your name, God, So is Your praise to the ends of the earth; Your right hand is full of righteousness. 







###### 11 



Mount Zion shall be glad, The daughters of Judah shall rejoice Because of Your judgments. 







###### 12 



Walk around Zion and encircle her; Count her towers; 







###### 13 



Consider her ramparts; Go through her palaces, So that you may tell _of her_ to the next generation. 







###### 14 



For [^b]such is God, Our God forever and ever; He will lead us [^c]until death. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 48:6 Lit _Trembling_ [^b]: Psalm 48:14 Lit _this_ [^c]: Psalm 48:14 Lit _upon_; some mss and LXX _forever_
