---
Aliases: [Psalms 43]
previous: ['Ps 42']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 44']
---
# Psalms 43

***








###### 1 



Vindicate me, God, and plead my case against an ungodly nation; [^a]Save me from the deceitful and unjust person! 







###### 2 



For You are the God of my strength; why have You rejected me? Why do I go about mourning [^b]because of the oppression of the enemy? 







###### 3 



Send out Your light and Your truth, they shall lead me; They shall bring me to Your holy hill And to Your dwelling places. 







###### 4 



Then I will go to the altar of God, To God [^c]my exceeding joy; And I will praise You on the lyre, God, my God. 







###### 5 



Why are you [^d]in despair, my soul? And why are you restless within me? Wait for God, for I will [^e]again praise [^f]Him _For_ the [^g]help of His presence, my God. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 43:1 Or _May You_ [^b]: Psalm 43:2 Or _while the enemy oppresses_ [^c]: Psalm 43:4 Lit _the gladness of my joy_ [^d]: Psalm 43:5 Or _dissolved away_ [^e]: Psalm 43:5 Or _still_ [^f]: Psalm 43:5 As in some ancient mss; MT _Him, the help of my face and my God_ [^g]: Psalm 43:5 Or _saving acts of_
