---
Aliases: [Psalms 49]
previous: ['Ps 48']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 50']
---
# Psalms 49

***








###### 1 



Hear this, all peoples; Listen, all inhabitants of the world, 







###### 2 



Both low and high, Rich and poor together. 







###### 3 



My mouth will speak wisdom, And the meditation of my heart _will be_ understanding. 







###### 4 



I will incline my ear to a proverb; I will [^a]express my riddle on the harp. 







###### 5 



Why should I fear in days of adversity, When the injustice of those who betray me surrounds me, 







###### 6 



Those who trust in their wealth And boast in the abundance of their riches? 







###### 7 



No one can by any means redeem another Or give God a ransom for him-- 







###### 8 



For the redemption of [^b]his soul is priceless, And he should cease _imagining_ forever-- 







###### 9 



That he might live on eternally, That he might not [^c]undergo decay. 







###### 10 



For he sees _that even_ wise people die; The foolish and the stupid alike perish And leave their wealth to others. 







###### 11 



Their [^d]inner thought is _that_ their houses are forever _And_ their dwelling places to all generations; They have named their lands after their own names. 







###### 12 



But man in _his_ splendor will not endure; He is like the animals that [^e]perish. 







###### 13 



This is the way of those who are foolish, And of those after them who approve their words. Selah 







###### 14 



Like sheep they sink down to [^f]Sheol; Death will be their shepherd; And the upright will rule over them in the morning, And their form shall be for [^g]Sheol to consume [^h]So that they have no lofty home. 







###### 15 



But God will redeem my soul from the [^i]power of [^j]Sheol, For He will receive me. Selah 







###### 16 



Do not be afraid when a person becomes rich, When the splendor of his house is increased; 







###### 17 



For when he dies, he will take nothing _with him_; His [^k]wealth will not descend after him. 







###### 18 



Though while he lives he congratulates [^l]himself-- And though _people_ praise you when you do well for yourself-- 







###### 19 



[^m]He will go to the generation of his fathers; They will never see the light. 







###### 20 



Mankind in _its_ splendor, yet without understanding, Is like the animals _that_ [^n]perish. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 49:4 Lit _open up_ [^b]: Psalm 49:8 Lit _their_ [^c]: Psalm 49:9 Or _see corruption_; lit _see the pit_ [^d]: Psalm 49:11 Some ancient versions _graves are their houses_ [^e]: Psalm 49:12 Lit _are destroyed_ [^f]: Psalm 49:14 I.e., the netherworld [^g]: Psalm 49:14 I.e., the netherworld [^h]: Psalm 49:14 Lit _Away from his habitation_ [^i]: Psalm 49:15 Lit _hand_ [^j]: Psalm 49:15 I.e., the netherworld [^k]: Psalm 49:17 Lit _glory_ [^l]: Psalm 49:18 Lit _his soul_ [^m]: Psalm 49:19 Lit _You_; or _It_ [^n]: Psalm 49:20 Lit _are destroyed_
