---
Aliases: [Psalms 45]
previous: ['Ps 44']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 46']
---
# Psalms 45

***








###### 1 



My heart is moved with a good theme; I [^c]address my [^d]verses to the [^e]King; My tongue is the pen of a ready writer. 







###### 2 



You are the most handsome of the sons of mankind; Grace is poured [^f]upon Your lips; Therefore God has blessed You forever. 







###### 3 



Strap Your sword on _Your_ thigh, [^g]Mighty One, _In_ Your splendor and majesty! 







###### 4 



And in Your majesty ride on victoriously, For the cause of truth, humility, _and_ righteousness; Let Your right hand teach You [^h]awesome things. 







###### 5 



Your arrows are sharp; The peoples fall under You; _Your arrows are_ in the heart of the King's enemies. 







###### 6 



Your throne, God, is forever and ever; The scepter of Your kingdom is a scepter of justice. 







###### 7 



You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness; Therefore God, Your God, has anointed You With the oil of joy above Your companions. 







###### 8 



All Your garments are _fragrant with_ myrrh, aloes, _and_ cassia; From ivory palaces stringed instruments have made You joyful. 







###### 9 



Kings' daughters are among Your noble women; At Your right hand stands the queen in gold from Ophir. 







###### 10 



Listen, daughter, look and incline your ear: Forget your people and your father's house; 







###### 11 



Then the King will crave your beauty. Because He is your Lord, bow down to Him. 







###### 12 



The daughter of Tyre _will come_ with a gift; The wealthy among the people will seek your favor. 







###### 13 



The King's daughter is all glorious within; Her clothing is interwoven with gold. 







###### 14 



She will be brought to the King in colorful garments; The virgins, her companions who follow her, Will be brought to You. 







###### 15 



They will be brought with joy and rejoicing; They will enter into the King's palace. 







###### 16 



In place of your fathers will be your sons; You shall make them princes in all the earth. 







###### 17 



I will make Your name known among all generations; Therefore the peoples will praise You forever and ever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 45 Title Or possibly _Lilies_ [^b]: Psalm 45 Title Possibly _Contemplative_; or _Didactic_; or _Wisdom Psalm_ [^c]: Psalm 45:1 Lit _am saying_ [^d]: Psalm 45:1 Lit _works_ [^e]: Psalm 45:1 Prob. refers to a Davidic king as a type of Christ [^f]: Psalm 45:2 Or _through_ [^g]: Psalm 45:3 Or _Warrior_ [^h]: Psalm 45:4 Or _fearful_
