---
Aliases: [Psalms 41]
previous: ['Ps 40']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 42']
---
# Psalms 41

***








###### 1 



Blessed is one who considers the [^a]helpless; The LORD will save him on a day of [^b]trouble. 







###### 2 



The LORD will protect him and keep him alive, And he will be called [^c]blessed upon the earth; And do not turn him over to the desire of his enemies. 







###### 3 



The LORD will sustain him upon his sickbed; In his illness, You [^d]restore him to health. 







###### 4 



As for me, I said, "LORD, be gracious to me; Heal my soul, for I have sinned against You." 







###### 5 



My enemies speak evil against me, "When will he die, and his name perish?" 







###### 6 



And [^e]when he comes to see _me_, he speaks [^f]empty words; His heart gathers wickedness to itself; When he goes outside, he tells it. 







###### 7 



All who hate me whisper together against me; They plot my harm against me, _saying_, 







###### 8 



"A wicked thing is poured out [^g]upon him, So that when he lies down, he will not get up again." 







###### 9 



Even my [^h]close friend in whom I trusted, Who ate my bread, Has lifted up his heel against me. 







###### 10 



But You, LORD, be gracious to me and raise me up, That I may repay them. 







###### 11 



By this I know that You are pleased with me, Because my enemy does not shout in triumph over me. 







###### 12 



As for me, You uphold me in my integrity, And You place me in Your presence forever. 







###### 13 



Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, From everlasting to everlasting. Amen and Amen. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 41:1 Or _poor_ [^b]: Psalm 41:1 Or _evil_ [^c]: Psalm 41:2 Or _happy_ [^d]: Psalm 41:3 Lit _turn all his bed_ [^e]: Psalm 41:6 Or _if he_ [^f]: Psalm 41:6 Lit _worthlessness_ [^g]: Psalm 41:8 Or _within_ [^h]: Psalm 41:9 Lit _man of peace_
