---
Aliases: [Psalms 42]
previous: ['Ps 41']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 43']
---
# Psalms 42

***








###### 1 



As the deer [^b]pants for the water brooks, So my soul [^c]pants for You, God. 







###### 2 



My soul thirsts for God, for the living God; When shall I come and [^d]appear before God? 







###### 3 



My tears have been my food day and night, While _they_ say to me all day long, "Where is your God?" 







###### 4 



I remember these things and pour out my soul within me. For I used to go over with the multitude _and_ walk them to the house of God, With a voice of joy and thanksgiving, a multitude celebrating a festival. 







###### 5 



Why are you [^e]in despair, my soul? And _why_ are you restless within me? Wait for God, for I will [^f]again praise [^g]Him _For_ the [^h]help of His [^i]presence, my God. 







###### 6 



My soul is [^j]in despair within me; Therefore I remember You from the land of the Jordan And the [^k]peaks of Hermon, from Mount Mizar. 







###### 7 



Deep calls to deep at the sound of Your waterfalls; All Your breakers and Your waves have passed over me. 







###### 8 



The LORD will send His goodness in the daytime; And His song will be with me in the night, A prayer to the God of my life. 







###### 9 



I will say to God my rock, "Why have You forgotten me? Why do I go about mourning [^l]because of the oppression of the enemy?" 







###### 10 



As a shattering of my bones, my adversaries taunt me, While they say to me all day long, "Where is your God?" 







###### 11 



Why are you [^m]in despair, my soul? And why are you restless within me? Wait for God, for I will again praise [^n]Him _For_ the [^o]help of His presence, my God. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 42 Title Possibly _Contemplative_; or _Didactic_; or _Skillful Psalm_ [^b]: Psalm 42:1 Lit _longs for_ [^c]: Psalm 42:1 Lit _longs for_ [^d]: Psalm 42:2 Some mss _see the face of God_ [^e]: Psalm 42:5 Lit _dissolved away_ [^f]: Psalm 42:5 Or _still_ [^g]: Psalm 42:5 Some ancient versions _Him, the help of my face and my God_ [^h]: Psalm 42:5 Or _saving acts of_ [^i]: Psalm 42:5 Or _presence. O my God, my soul..._ [^j]: Psalm 42:6 Or _dissolved away_ [^k]: Psalm 42:6 Lit _Hermons_ [^l]: Psalm 42:9 Or _while the enemy oppresses_ [^m]: Psalm 42:11 Or _dissolved away_ [^n]: Psalm 42:11 As in some ancient mss, cf. v 5; MT _Him, the help of my face and my God_ [^o]: Psalm 42:11 Or _saving acts of_
