---
Aliases: [Psalms 47]
previous: ['Ps 46']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 48']
---
# Psalms 47

***








###### 1 



Clap your hands, all you peoples; Shout to God with a voice of joy. 







###### 2 



For the LORD Most High is to be feared, A great King over all the earth. 







###### 3 



He subdues peoples under us And nations under our feet. 







###### 4 



He chooses our inheritance for us, The pride of Jacob whom He loves. Selah 







###### 5 



God has ascended [^a]with a shout, The LORD, [^b]with the sound of a trumpet. 







###### 6 



Sing praises to God, sing praises; Sing praises to our King, sing praises. 







###### 7 



For God is the King of all the earth; Sing praises with a psalm of wisdom. 







###### 8 



God reigns over the nations, God [^c]sits on His holy throne. 







###### 9 



The [^d]princes of the people have assembled _as_ the people of the God of Abraham, For the shields of the earth belong to God; He is highly exalted. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 47:5 Or _amid_ [^b]: Psalm 47:5 Or _amid_ [^c]: Psalm 47:8 Or _has taken His seat_ [^d]: Psalm 47:9 Or _nobles_
