---
Aliases: [Psalms 46]
previous: ['Ps 45']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 47']
---
# Psalms 46

***








###### 1 



God is our refuge and strength, A [^b]very ready help in [^c]trouble. 







###### 2 



Therefore we will not fear, though the earth shakes And the mountains slip into the heart of the [^d]sea; 







###### 3 



Though its waters roar _and_ foam, Though the mountains quake at its swelling pride. Selah 







###### 4 



There is a river whose streams make the city of God happy, The holy dwelling places of the Most High. 







###### 5 



God is in the midst of her, she will not be moved; God will help her [^e]when morning dawns. 







###### 6 



The [^f]nations made an uproar, the kingdoms tottered; He [^g]raised His voice, the earth quaked. 







###### 7 



The LORD of armies is with us; The God of Jacob is our stronghold. Selah 







###### 8 



Come, behold the works of the LORD, [^h]Who has inflicted horrific events on the earth. 







###### 9 



He makes wars to cease to the end of the earth; He breaks the bow and cuts the spear in two; He burns the chariots with fire. 







###### 10 



"[^i]Stop _striving_ and know that I am God; I will be exalted among the [^j]nations, I will be exalted on the earth." 







###### 11 



The LORD of armies is with us; The God of Jacob is our stronghold. Selah ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 46 Title Possibly _for soprano voices_ [^b]: Psalm 46:1 Lit _help easily found_ [^c]: Psalm 46:1 Or _needs_ [^d]: Psalm 46:2 Lit _seas_ [^e]: Psalm 46:5 Lit _at the turning of the morning_ [^f]: Psalm 46:6 Or _Gentiles_ [^g]: Psalm 46:6 Lit _gave forth_ [^h]: Psalm 46:8 Or _Which He has inflicted as desolations_ [^i]: Psalm 46:10 Or _Let go, relax_ [^j]: Psalm 46:10 Or _Gentiles_
