---
Aliases: [Psalms 51]
previous: ['Ps 50']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 52']
---
# Psalms 51

***








###### 1 



Be gracious to me, God, according to Your faithfulness; According to the greatness of Your compassion, wipe out my wrongdoings. 







###### 2 



Wash me thoroughly from my guilt And cleanse me from my sin. 







###### 3 



For I know my wrongdoings, And my sin is constantly before me. 







###### 4 



Against You, You only, I have sinned And done what is evil in Your sight, So that You [^b]are justified [^c]when You speak And [^d]blameless when You judge. 







###### 5 



Behold, I was brought forth in guilt, And in sin my mother conceived me. 







###### 6 



Behold, You desire truth in the [^e]innermost being, And in secret You will make wisdom known to me. 







###### 7 



[^f]Purify me with hyssop, and I will be clean; [^g]Cleanse me, and I will be whiter than snow. 







###### 8 



[^h]Let me hear joy and gladness, Let the bones You have broken rejoice. 







###### 9 



Hide Your face from my sins And wipe out all my guilty deeds. 







###### 10 



Create [^i]in me a clean heart, God, And renew a steadfast spirit within me. 







###### 11 



Do not cast me away from Your presence, And do not take Your Holy Spirit from me. 







###### 12 



Restore to me the joy of Your salvation, And sustain me with a willing spirit. 







###### 13 



_Then_ I will teach wrongdoers Your ways, And sinners will [^j]be converted to You. 







###### 14 



Save me from the guilt of bloodshed, God, the God of my salvation; _Then_ my tongue will joyfully sing of Your righteousness. 







###### 15 



Lord, [^k]open my lips, So that my mouth may declare Your praise. 







###### 16 



For You do not delight in sacrifice, otherwise I would give it; You do not take pleasure in burnt offering. 







###### 17 



The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit; A broken and a contrite heart, God, You will not despise. 







###### 18 



By Your favor do good to Zion; [^l]Build the walls of Jerusalem. 







###### 19 



Then You will delight in [^m]righteous sacrifices, In burnt offering and whole burnt offering; Then [^n]bulls will be offered on Your altar. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 51 Title 2 Sam 12:1 [^b]: Psalm 51:4 Or _may be in the right_ [^c]: Psalm 51:4 Many mss _in Your words_ [^d]: Psalm 51:4 Lit _pure_ [^e]: Psalm 51:6 Or _inward parts_ [^f]: Psalm 51:7 Or _May You purify...that I may be clean_ [^g]: Psalm 51:7 Or _May You cleanse_ [^h]: Psalm 51:8 Or _May You cause_ [^i]: Psalm 51:10 Lit _for_ [^j]: Psalm 51:13 Or _turn back_ [^k]: Psalm 51:15 Or _may You open_ [^l]: Psalm 51:18 Or _May You build_ [^m]: Psalm 51:19 Or _sacrifices of righteousness_ [^n]: Psalm 51:19 Lit _they will offer bulls_
