---
Aliases: [Psalms 57]
previous: ['Ps 56']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 58']
---
# Psalms 57

***








###### 1 



Be gracious to me, God, be gracious to me, For my soul takes refuge in You; And in the shadow of Your wings I will take refuge Until destruction passes by. 







###### 2 



I will cry to God Most High, To God who accomplishes _all things_ for me. 







###### 3 



He will send from heaven and save me; He rebukes the one who [^d]tramples upon me. Selah God will send His [^e]favor and His truth. 







###### 4 



My soul is among lions; I must lie _among_ those who devour, _Among_ sons of mankind whose teeth are spears and arrows, And their tongue is a sharp sword. 







###### 5 



Be exalted above the heavens, God; _May_ Your glory _be_ above all the earth. 







###### 6 



They have prepared a net for my steps; My soul is bowed down; They dug a pit before me; They _themselves_ have fallen into the midst of it. Selah 







###### 7 



My heart is steadfast, God, my heart is steadfast; I will sing, yes, I will sing praises! 







###### 8 



Awake, my glory! Awake, harp and lyre! I will awaken the dawn. 







###### 9 



I will praise You, Lord, among the peoples; I will sing praises to You among the [^f]nations. 







###### 10 



For Your goodness is great to the heavens And Your [^g]truth to the clouds. 







###### 11 



Be exalted above the heavens, God; _May_ Your glory _be_ above all the earth. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 57 Title Lit _Do Not Destroy_ [^b]: Psalm 57 Title Possibly, _Epigrammatic Poem_; or _Atonement Psalm_ [^c]: Psalm 57 Title 1 Sam 22:1; 24:3 [^d]: Psalm 57:3 Or _snaps at_ [^e]: Psalm 57:3 Or _faithfulness_ [^f]: Psalm 57:9 Lit _peoples_ [^g]: Psalm 57:10 Or _faithfulness_
