---
Aliases: [Psalms 55]
previous: ['Ps 54']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 56']
---
# Psalms 55

***








###### 1 



Listen to my prayer, God; And do not hide Yourself from my pleading. 







###### 2 



Give _Your_ attention to me and answer me; I am restless in my complaint and [^b]severely distracted, 







###### 3 



Because of the voice of the enemy, Because of the pressure of the wicked; For they bring down [^c]trouble upon me And in anger they hold a grudge against me. 







###### 4 



My heart is in anguish within me, And the terrors of death have fallen upon me. 







###### 5 



Fear and trembling come upon me, And [^d]horror has [^e]overwhelmed me. 







###### 6 



I said, "Oh, that I had wings like a dove! I would fly away and [^f]be at rest. 







###### 7 



Behold, I would flee far away, I would spend my nights in the wilderness. Selah 







###### 8 



I would hurry to my place of refuge From the stormy wind _and_ heavy gale." 







###### 9 



Confuse them, Lord, divide their tongues, For I have seen violence and strife in the city. 







###### 10 



Day and night they go around her upon her walls, And evil and harm are in her midst. 







###### 11 



Destruction is in her midst; Oppression and deceit do not depart from her [^g]streets. 







###### 12 



For it is not an enemy who taunts me, Then I could endure _it_; Nor is it one who hates me who has exalted himself against me, Then I could hide myself from him. 







###### 13 



But it is you, a man [^h]my equal, My companion and my confidant; 







###### 14 



We who had sweet [^i]fellowship together, Walked in the house of God among the commotion. 







###### 15 



_May_ [^j]death _come_ deceitfully upon them; May they go down alive to [^k]Sheol, For evil is in their dwelling, in their midst. 







###### 16 



As for me, I shall call upon God, And the LORD will save me. 







###### 17 



Evening and morning and at noon, I will complain and moan, And He will hear my voice. 







###### 18 



He will redeem my soul in peace [^l]from the battle _which is_ against me, For they are many _who are aggressive_ toward me. 







###### 19 



God will hear and humiliate them-- Even the one who [^m]sits enthroned from ancient times-- Selah With whom there [^n]is no change, And who do not fear God. 







###### 20 



He has put forth his hands against those who were at peace with him; He has [^o]violated his covenant. 







###### 21 



His [^p]speech was smoother than butter, But his heart was war; His words were softer than oil, Yet they were drawn swords. 







###### 22 



Cast your burden upon the LORD and He will sustain you; He will never allow the righteous to [^q]be shaken. 







###### 23 



But You, God, will bring them down to the pit of destruction; Men of bloodshed and deceit will not live out half their days. But I will trust in You. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 55 Title Possibly _Contemplative_; or _Didactic_; or _Skillful Psalm_ [^b]: Psalm 55:2 Another reading is _I must moan_ [^c]: Psalm 55:3 Or _wickedness_ [^d]: Psalm 55:5 Lit _shuddering_ [^e]: Psalm 55:5 Lit _covered_ [^f]: Psalm 55:6 Lit _settle down_ [^g]: Psalm 55:11 Or _plaza_ [^h]: Psalm 55:13 Lit _according to my valuation_ [^i]: Psalm 55:14 Lit _counsel_; or _intimacy_ [^j]: Psalm 55:15 Another reading is _devastation be upon them_ [^k]: Psalm 55:15 I.e., the netherworld [^l]: Psalm 55:18 Or _so that none may approach me_ [^m]: Psalm 55:19 Or _remains from_ [^n]: Psalm 55:19 Lit _are no changes_ [^o]: Psalm 55:20 Lit _profaned_ [^p]: Psalm 55:21 Lit _mouth_ [^q]: Psalm 55:22 Or _totter_
