---
Aliases: [Psalms 53]
previous: ['Ps 52']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 54']
---
# Psalms 53

***








###### 1 



The fool has said in his heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt, and have committed abominable injustice; There is no one who does good. 







###### 2 



God has looked down from heaven upon the sons of mankind To see if there is anyone who [^c]understands, Who seeks after God. 







###### 3 



Every one of them has turned aside; together they have become corrupt; There is no one who does good, not even one. 







###### 4 



Have the workers of injustice no knowledge, Who eat up My people _like_ they ate bread, _And_ have not called upon God? 







###### 5 



They were in great [^d]fear there, _where_ no [^e]fear had been; For God scattered the bones of [^f]him who encamped against you; You put _them_ to shame, because God had rejected them. 







###### 6 



Oh, that the salvation of Israel _would come_ from Zion! When God restores the fortunes of His people, Jacob shall rejoice, Israel shall be glad. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 53 Title I.e., sickness, a sad tone [^b]: Psalm 53 Title Possibly _Contemplative_; or _Didactic_; or _Skillful Psalm_ [^c]: Psalm 53:2 Or _acts wisely_ [^d]: Psalm 53:5 Or _dread_ [^e]: Psalm 53:5 Or _dread_ [^f]: Psalm 53:5 Or possibly _those_
