---
Aliases: [Psalms 52]
previous: ['Ps 51']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 53']
---
# Psalms 52

***








###### 1 



Why do you boast in evil, you mighty man? The faithfulness of God _endures_ all day long. 







###### 2 



Your tongue devises destruction, Like a sharp razor, you worker of deceit. 







###### 3 



You love evil more than good, Lies more than speaking what is right. Selah 







###### 4 



You love all words that devour, You deceitful tongue. 







###### 5 



[^c]But God will break you down forever; He will snatch you up and tear you away from _your_ tent, And uproot you from the land of the living. Selah 







###### 6 



The righteous will see and fear, And they will laugh at him, _saying_, 







###### 7 



"Behold, the man who would not make God his refuge, But trusted in the abundance of his riches _And_ was strong in [^d]his _evil_ desire." 







###### 8 



But as for me, I am like a green olive tree in the house of God; I trust in the faithfulness of God forever and ever. 







###### 9 



I will praise You forever, because You have done _it_, And I will wait on Your name, for _it is_ good, in the presence of Your godly ones. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 52 Title Possibly _Contemplative_; or _Didactic_; or _Skillful Psalm_ [^b]: Psalm 52 Title 1 Sam 22:9 [^c]: Psalm 52:5 Or _Also_ [^d]: Psalm 52:7 Or _his destruction_
