---
Aliases: [Psalms 54]
previous: ['Ps 53']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 55']
---
# Psalms 54

***








###### 1 



Save me, God, by Your name, And [^c]vindicate me by Your power. 







###### 2 



Hear my prayer, God; Listen to the words of my mouth. 







###### 3 



For strangers have risen against me And violent men have sought my [^d]life; They have not set God before them. Selah 







###### 4 



Behold, God is my helper; The Lord is [^e]the sustainer of my soul. 







###### 5 



[^f]He will pay back the evil to my enemies; [^g]Destroy them in Your [^h]faithfulness. 







###### 6 



[^i]Willingly I will sacrifice to You; I will praise Your name, LORD, for it is good. 







###### 7 



For [^j]He has saved me from all [^k]trouble, And my eye has looked _with satisfaction_ upon my enemies. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 54 Title Possibly _Contemplative_; or _Didactic_; or _Skillful Psalm_ [^b]: Psalm 54 Title 1 Sam 23:19; 26:1 [^c]: Psalm 54:1 Lit _judge_ [^d]: Psalm 54:3 Or _soul_ [^e]: Psalm 54:4 Lit _as those who sustain_ [^f]: Psalm 54:5 LXX; MT _The evil will return_ [^g]: Psalm 54:5 Or _Put to silence_ [^h]: Psalm 54:5 Or _truth_ [^i]: Psalm 54:6 Or _With a voluntary offering_ [^j]: Psalm 54:7 Or _it_; i.e., His name [^k]: Psalm 54:7 Or _distress_
