---
Aliases: [Psalms 58]
previous: ['Ps 57']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 59']
---
# Psalms 58

***








###### 1 



Do you indeed [^c]speak righteousness, you [^d]gods? Do you judge [^e]fairly, you sons of mankind? 







###### 2 



No, in heart you practice injustice; On earth you clear a way for the violence of your hands. 







###### 3 



The wicked have turned away from the womb; These who speak lies go astray from [^f]birth. 







###### 4 



They have venom like the venom of a serpent; Like a deaf cobra that stops up its ear, 







###### 5 



So that it does not hear the voice of [^g]charmers, _Or_ a skillful caster of spells. 







###### 6 



God, shatter their teeth in their mouth; Break out the fangs of the young lions, LORD. 







###### 7 



May they flow away like water that runs off; _When_ he [^h]aims his arrows, _may they be_ as [^i]headless shafts. 







###### 8 



_May they be_ like a snail which goes along in slime, _Like_ the miscarriage of a woman that never sees the sun. 







###### 9 



Before your pots can feel _the fire of_ thorns He will sweep them away with a whirlwind, the [^j]green and the burning alike. 







###### 10 



The righteous will rejoice when he sees vengeance; He will wash his feet in the blood of the wicked. 







###### 11 



And people will say, "There certainly is [^k]a reward for the righteous; There certainly is a God who judges on the earth!" ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 58 Title Lit _Do Not Destroy_ [^b]: Psalm 58 Title Possibly _Epigrammatic Poem_ or _Atonement Psalm_ [^c]: Psalm 58:1 Another reading is _speak righteousness in silence_ [^d]: Psalm 58:1 Or _mighty ones_; or _judges_ [^e]: Psalm 58:1 Or _mankind fairly_? [^f]: Psalm 58:3 Lit _the womb_ [^g]: Psalm 58:5 Or _whisperers_ [^h]: Psalm 58:7 Lit _bends_ [^i]: Psalm 58:7 Lit _though they were cut off_ [^j]: Psalm 58:9 Lit _living_ [^k]: Psalm 58:11 Lit _fruit_
