---
Aliases: [Psalms 59]
previous: ['Ps 58']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 60']
---
# Psalms 59

***








###### 1 



Rescue me from my enemies, my God; [^d]Set me _securely_ on high away from those who rise up against me. 







###### 2 



Rescue me from those who practice injustice, And save me from men of bloodshed. 







###### 3 



For behold, they have [^e]set an ambush for my [^f]life; [^g]Fierce men attack me, Not for my wrongdoing nor for my sin, LORD, 







###### 4 



[^h]For no guilt _of mine_, they run and take their stand against me. Stir Yourself to [^i]help me, and see! 







###### 5 



You, LORD God of armies, the God of Israel, Awake to [^j]punish all the nations; Do not be gracious to any _who_ deal treacherously in wrongdoing. Selah 







###### 6 



They return at evening, they howl like a dog, And prowl around the city. 







###### 7 



Behold, they gush forth with their mouths; Swords are in their lips, For, _they say_, "Who hears?" 







###### 8 



But You, LORD, laugh at them; You scoff at all the nations. 







###### 9 



_Because of_ [^k]his strength I will watch for You, For God is my refuge. 







###### 10 



[^l]My God in His faithfulness will meet me; God will let me look _triumphantly_ upon my enemies. 







###### 11 



Do not kill them, or my people will forget; [^m]Scatter them by Your power and bring them down, Lord, our shield. 







###### 12 



[^n]_On account of_ the sin of their mouths _and_ the words of their lips, May they even be caught in their pride, And on account of curses and lies which they tell. 







###### 13 



[^o]Destroy _them_ in wrath, [^p]destroy _them_ so that they will no longer exist; So that _people_ may know that God [^q]rules in Jacob, To the ends of the earth. Selah 







###### 14 



They return at evening, they howl like a dog, And prowl around the city. 







###### 15 



They wander about [^r]for food And [^s]murmur if they are not satisfied. 







###### 16 



But as for me, I will sing of Your strength; Yes, I will joyfully sing of Your faithfulness in the morning, For You have been my refuge And a place of refuge on the day of my distress. 







###### 17 



My strength, I will sing praises to You; For God is my refuge, the [^t]God who shows me favor. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 59 Title Lit _Do Not Destroy_ [^b]: Psalm 59 Title Possibly _Epigrammatic Poem_ or _Atonement Psalm_ [^c]: Psalm 59 Title 1 Sam 19:11 [^d]: Psalm 59:1 Or _May You put me in an inaccessibly high place_ [^e]: Psalm 59:3 Or _lain in wait_ [^f]: Psalm 59:3 Lit _soul_ [^g]: Psalm 59:3 Or _Strong_ [^h]: Psalm 59:4 Lit _Without guilt_ [^i]: Psalm 59:4 Lit _meet_ [^j]: Psalm 59:5 Lit _visit_ [^k]: Psalm 59:9 LXX, some mss and some ancient versions _my strength_ (cf. v 17) [^l]: Psalm 59:10 Many mss and some ancient versions _The God of my faithfulness_ [^m]: Psalm 59:11 Or _Make them wander_ [^n]: Psalm 59:12 Or _The sin of their mouth is the word of their lips_, [^o]: Psalm 59:13 Lit _Bring to an end_ [^p]: Psalm 59:13 Lit _Bring to an end_ [^q]: Psalm 59:13 Or _is Ruler_ [^r]: Psalm 59:15 Lit _to eat_ [^s]: Psalm 59:15 Another reading is _linger all night_ [^t]: Psalm 59:17 Lit _God of my favor_
