---
Aliases: [Psalms 50]
previous: ['Ps 49']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 51']
---
# Psalms 50

***








###### 1 



The Mighty One, God, the LORD, has spoken And summoned the earth, from [^b]the rising of the sun to its setting. 







###### 2 



Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God has shone. 







###### 3 



May our God come and not keep silent; Fire devours before Him, And a storm is violently raging around Him. 







###### 4 



He summons the heavens above, And the earth, to judge His people: 







###### 5 



"Gather My godly ones to Me, Those who have made a covenant with Me by sacrifice." 







###### 6 



And the heavens declare His righteousness, For God Himself is judge. Selah 







###### 7 



"Hear, My people, and I will speak; Israel, I will testify [^c]against you; I am God, your God. 







###### 8 



I do not rebuke you for your sacrifices, And your burnt offerings are continually before Me. 







###### 9 



I will not take a bull from your house, Nor male goats from your folds. 







###### 10 



For every animal of the forest is Mine, The cattle on a thousand hills. 







###### 11 



I know every bird of the mountains, And everything that moves in the field is [^d]Mine. 







###### 12 



If I were hungry I would not tell you, For the world is Mine, and [^e]everything it contains. 







###### 13 



Shall I eat the flesh of [^f]bulls Or drink the blood of male goats? 







###### 14 



Offer God a sacrifice of thanksgiving And pay your vows to the Most High; 







###### 15 



Call upon Me on the day of trouble; I will rescue you, and you will honor Me." 







###### 16 



But to the wicked God says, "What _right_ do you have to tell of My statutes And to take My covenant in your mouth? 







###### 17 



For you yourself hate discipline, And you throw My words behind you. 







###### 18 



When you see a thief, you become friends with him, And [^g]you associate with adulterers. 







###### 19 



You [^h]let your mouth loose in evil, And your tongue harnesses deceit. 







###### 20 



You sit and speak against your brother; You slander your own mother's son. 







###### 21 



These things you have done _and_ I kept silent; You thought that I was _just_ like you; I will rebuke you and present _the case_ before your eyes. 







###### 22 



"Now consider this, you who forget God, Or I will tear _you_ in pieces, and there will be no one to save _you_. 







###### 23 



He who offers a sacrifice of thanksgiving honors Me; And to him who sets _his_ way _properly_ I will show the salvation of God." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 50 Title 1 Chr 15:17; 2 Chr 29:30 [^b]: Psalm 50:1 I.e., the east to the west [^c]: Psalm 50:7 Or _to_ [^d]: Psalm 50:11 Or _in My mind_; lit _with Me_ [^e]: Psalm 50:12 Lit _its fullness_ [^f]: Psalm 50:13 Lit _strong ones_ [^g]: Psalm 50:18 Lit _your part is with_ [^h]: Psalm 50:19 Lit _send_
