---
Aliases: [Psalms 63]
previous: ['Ps 62']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 64']
---
# Psalms 63

***








###### 1 



God, You are my God; I shall be watching for You; My soul thirsts for You, my flesh yearns for You, In a dry and exhausted land where there is no water. 







###### 2 



So have I seen You in the sanctuary, To see Your power and glory. 







###### 3 



Because Your [^b]favor is better than life, My lips will praise You. 







###### 4 



So I will bless You as long as I live; I will lift up my hands in Your name. 







###### 5 



My soul is satisfied as with fat and fatness, And my mouth offers praises with joyful lips. 







###### 6 



When I remember You on my bed, I meditate on You in the night watches, 







###### 7 



For You have been my help, And in the shadow of Your wings I sing for joy. 







###### 8 



My soul clings [^c]to You; Your right hand takes hold of me. 







###### 9 



But those who seek my [^d]life to destroy it, Will go into the [^e]depths of the earth. 







###### 10 



[^f]They will be [^g]turned over to the power of the sword; They will be a [^h]prey for foxes. 







###### 11 



But the king will rejoice in God; Everyone who swears by Him will boast, For the mouths of those who speak lies will be stopped. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 63 Title 1 Sam 22:5; 23:14 [^b]: Psalm 63:3 Or _faithfulness_ [^c]: Psalm 63:8 Lit _after_ [^d]: Psalm 63:9 Lit _soul_ [^e]: Psalm 63:9 Lit _lowest places_ [^f]: Psalm 63:10 Lit _They will pour him out_ [^g]: Psalm 63:10 Lit _poured out by_ [^h]: Psalm 63:10 Lit _portion_
