---
Aliases: [Psalms 65]
previous: ['Ps 64']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 66']
---
# Psalms 65

***








###### 1 



There will be silence [^a]before You, _and_ praise in Zion, God, And the vow will be fulfilled for You. 







###### 2 



You who hear prayer, To You all [^b]mankind comes. 







###### 3 



[^c]Wrongdoings prevail against me; As for our offenses, You [^d]forgive them. 







###### 4 



Blessed _is the one_ You choose and allow to approach _You_; He will dwell in Your courtyards. We will be satisfied with the goodness of Your house, Your holy temple. 







###### 5 



By awesome _deeds_ You answer us in righteousness, God of our salvation, _You who are_ the trust of all the ends of the earth and the farthest [^e]sea; 







###### 6 



Who establishes the mountains by His strength, Who is encircled with might; 







###### 7 



Who stills the roaring of the seas, The roaring of their waves, And the turmoil of the nations. 







###### 8 



They who dwell at the ends _of the earth_ stand in awe of Your signs; You make the [^f]sunrise and the sunset shout for joy. 







###### 9 



You visit the earth and cause it to overflow; You greatly enrich it; The [^g]stream of God is full of water; You prepare their grain, for so You prepare [^h]the earth. 







###### 10 



You water its furrows abundantly, You [^i]settle its ridges, You soften it with showers, You bless its growth. 







###### 11 



You have crowned the year [^j]with Your goodness, And Your [^k]paths drip _with_ fatness. 







###### 12 



The pastures of the wilderness drip, And the hills encircle themselves with rejoicing. 







###### 13 



The meadows are clothed with flocks And the valleys are covered with grain; They shout for joy, yes, they sing. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 65:1 Lit _to_ [^b]: Psalm 65:2 Lit _flesh comes_ [^c]: Psalm 65:3 Or _Confessions of wrongdoings_ [^d]: Psalm 65:3 Lit _cover, atone for_ [^e]: Psalm 65:5 Or _seas_ [^f]: Psalm 65:8 Lit _outgoings of the morning and evening_ [^g]: Psalm 65:9 Or _channel_ [^h]: Psalm 65:9 Lit _it_ [^i]: Psalm 65:10 Or _smooth_ [^j]: Psalm 65:11 Lit _of_ [^k]: Psalm 65:11 I.e., wagon tracks
