---
Aliases: [Psalms 69]
previous: ['Ps 68']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 70']
---
# Psalms 69

***








###### 1 



Save me, God, For the waters have [^b]threatened my life. 







###### 2 



I have sunk in deep mud, and there is no foothold; I have come into deep waters, and a [^c]flood overflows me. 







###### 3 



I am weary with my crying; my throat is parched; My eyes fail while I wait for my God. 







###### 4 



Those who hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head; Those who would [^d]destroy me are powerful, those who oppose me with lies; What I did not steal, I then have to restore. 







###### 5 



God, You know my foolishness, And my guilt is not hidden from You. 







###### 6 



May those who wait for You not be ashamed because of me, Lord [^e]God of armies; May those who seek You not be dishonored because of me, God of Israel, 







###### 7 



Because for Your sake I have endured disgrace; Dishonor has covered my face. 







###### 8 



I have become estranged [^f]from my brothers, And a stranger to my mother's sons. 







###### 9 



For zeal for Your house has consumed me, And the taunts of those who taunt You have fallen on me. 







###### 10 



When I wept in my soul with fasting, It became my disgrace. 







###### 11 



When I made sackcloth my clothing, I became a proverb to them. 







###### 12 



Those who sit in the gate talk about me, And songs of mockery by those habitually drunk _are about me_. 







###### 13 



But as for me, my prayer is to You, LORD, at an acceptable time; God, in the greatness of Your mercy, Answer me with [^g]Your saving truth. 







###### 14 



Rescue me from the mud and do not let me sink; May I be rescued from those who hate me, and from the depths of water. 







###### 15 



May the [^h]flood of water not overflow me Nor the deep swallow me up, Nor the pit close its mouth on me. 







###### 16 



Answer me, LORD, for Your mercy is good; According to the greatness of Your compassion, turn to me, 







###### 17 



And do not hide Your face from Your servant, For I am in distress; answer me quickly. 







###### 18 



Come near to my soul _and_ redeem it; Ransom me because of my enemies! 







###### 19 



You know my disgrace, my shame, and my dishonor; All my enemies are [^i]known to You. 







###### 20 



Disgrace has broken my heart, and I am so sick. And I waited for sympathy, but there was none; And for comforters, but I found none. 







###### 21 



They also gave me [^j]a bitter herb in my food, And for my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink. 







###### 22 



May their table before them become a snare; And [^k]when they are at peace, _may it become_ a trap. 







###### 23 



May their eyes grow dim so that they cannot see, And make their hips shake continually. 







###### 24 



Pour out Your indignation on them, And may Your burning anger overtake them. 







###### 25 



May their [^l]camp be desolated; May there be none living in their tents. 







###### 26 



For they have persecuted him whom You Yourself struck, And they tell of the pain of those whom You have [^m]wounded. 







###### 27 



Add guilt to their guilt, And may they not come into Your righteousness. 







###### 28 



May they be wiped out of the book of life, And may they not be [^n]recorded with the righteous. 







###### 29 



But I am afflicted and in pain; [^o]May Your salvation, God, set me _safely_ on high. 







###### 30 



I will praise the name of God with song, And exalt Him with thanksgiving. 







###### 31 



And it will please the LORD better than an ox _Or_ bull with horns and hoofs. 







###### 32 



The humble [^p]have seen _it and_ are glad; You who seek God, let your heart [^q]revive. 







###### 33 



For the LORD hears the needy, And does not despise _those of_ His _who are_ prisoners. 







###### 34 



Heaven and earth shall praise Him, The seas and everything that moves in them. 







###### 35 



For God will save Zion and build the cities of Judah, So that they may live there and possess it. 







###### 36 



The [^r]descendants of His servants will inherit it, And those who love His name will live in it. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 69 Title Or possibly _Lilies_ [^b]: Psalm 69:1 Lit _come up to_ my _soul_ [^c]: Psalm 69:2 Lit _flowing stream_ [^d]: Psalm 69:4 Or _silence_ [^e]: Psalm 69:6 Heb _YHWH_, usually rendered _Lord_ [^f]: Psalm 69:8 Lit _to_ [^g]: Psalm 69:13 Or _the faithfulness of Your salvation_ [^h]: Psalm 69:15 Lit _stream_ [^i]: Psalm 69:19 Lit _before You_ [^j]: Psalm 69:21 Or _poison_ [^k]: Psalm 69:22 Lit _for those who are secure_ [^l]: Psalm 69:25 Lit _encampment_ [^m]: Psalm 69:26 Lit _pierced_ [^n]: Psalm 69:28 Lit _written_ [^o]: Psalm 69:29 Or _Your salvation, O God, will set..._ [^p]: Psalm 69:32 Some mss and ancient versions _will see_ [^q]: Psalm 69:32 Or _live_ [^r]: Psalm 69:36 Lit _seed_
