---
Aliases: [Psalms 62]
previous: ['Ps 61']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 63']
---
# Psalms 62

***








###### 1 



My soul _waits in_ silence for God alone; From Him _comes_ my salvation. 







###### 2 



He alone is my rock and my salvation, My stronghold; I will not be greatly shaken. 







###### 3 



How long will you attack a man, That you may murder _him_, all of you, Like a leaning wall, like a tottering fence? 







###### 4 



They have planned only to thrust him down from his high position; They delight in falsehood; They bless with [^b]their mouth, But inwardly they curse. Selah 







###### 5 



My soul, wait in silence for God alone, For my hope is from Him. 







###### 6 



He alone is my rock and my salvation, My refuge; I will not be shaken. 







###### 7 



My salvation and my glory _rest_ on God; The rock of my strength, my refuge is in God. 







###### 8 



Trust in Him at all times, you people; Pour out your hearts before Him; God is a refuge for us. Selah 







###### 9 



People of low standing are only breath, and people of rank are a lie; In the balances they go up. Together they are _lighter_ than breath. 







###### 10 



Do not trust in oppression, And do not vainly rely on robbery; If wealth increases, do not set _your_ heart _on it_. 







###### 11 



God has spoken [^c]once; [^d]Twice I have heard this: That power belongs to God; 







###### 12 



And faithfulness is Yours, Lord, For You reward a person according to his work. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 62 Title Cf. 1 Chr 16:41; 25:1; Ps 39 and 77 titles [^b]: Psalm 62:4 Lit _his_ [^c]: Psalm 62:11 Or _one thing_ [^d]: Psalm 62:11 Or _These two things I have heard_
