---
Aliases: [Psalms 60]
previous: ['Ps 59']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 61']
---
# Psalms 60

***








###### 1 



God, You have rejected us. You have [^d]broken us; You have been angry; restore us! 







###### 2 



You have made the [^e]land quake, You have split it open; Heal its cracks, for it sways. 







###### 3 



You have [^f]made Your people experience hardship; You have given us [^g]wine to drink that makes us stagger. 







###### 4 



You have given a banner to those who fear You, That it may be displayed because of the truth. Selah 







###### 5 



That Your beloved may be rescued, Save _us_ with Your right hand, and answer [^h]us! 







###### 6 



God has spoken in His [^i]holiness: "I will triumph, I will divide up Shechem, and measure out the Valley of Succoth. 







###### 7 



Gilead is Mine, and Manasseh is Mine; Ephraim also is the [^j]helmet of My head; Judah is My scepter. 







###### 8 



Moab is My washbowl; I will throw My sandal over Edom; Shout loud, Philistia, because of Me!" 







###### 9 



Who will bring me into the besieged city? Who [^k]will lead me to Edom? 







###### 10 



Have You Yourself not rejected us, God? And will You not go out with our armies, God? 







###### 11 



Oh give us help against the enemy, For rescue [^l]by man is worthless. 







###### 12 



[^m]Through God we will do valiantly, And it is He who will trample down our enemies. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 60 Title Lit _The lily of testimony_ [^b]: Psalm 60 Title Possibly, _Epigrammatic Poem_ or _Atonement Psalm_ [^c]: Psalm 60 Title 2 Sam 8:3, 13; 1 Chr 18:3, 12 [^d]: Psalm 60:1 Or _broken out upon us_ [^e]: Psalm 60:2 Or _earth_ [^f]: Psalm 60:3 Lit _caused Your people to see_ [^g]: Psalm 60:3 Lit _wine of staggering_ [^h]: Psalm 60:5 Some authorities _me_ [^i]: Psalm 60:6 Or _sanctuary_ [^j]: Psalm 60:7 Lit _protection_ [^k]: Psalm 60:9 Or _has led_ [^l]: Psalm 60:11 Lit _of_ [^m]: Psalm 60:12 Or _In_; or _With_
