---
Aliases: [Psalms 64]
previous: ['Ps 63']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 65']
---
# Psalms 64

***








###### 1 



Hear my voice, God, in my [^a]complaint; Protect my life from dread of the enemy. 







###### 2 



Hide me from the secret discussion of evildoers, From the restlessness of the workers of injustice, 







###### 3 



Who have sharpened their tongues like a sword. They aimed bitter speech _as_ their arrows, 







###### 4 



To shoot [^b]from concealment at the innocent; Suddenly they shoot at him, and do not fear. 







###### 5 



They make firm for themselves an evil [^c]purpose; They [^d]talk of setting snares secretly; They say, "Who can see them?" 







###### 6 



They [^e]devise injustices, _saying_, "We are [^f]ready _with_ a well-conceived plot"; For the [^g]inward thought and the heart of a person are [^h]deep. 







###### 7 



But God [^i]will shoot an arrow at them; Suddenly [^j]they will be wounded. 







###### 8 



So [^k]they [^l]will make him stumble; Their own tongue is against them; All who see _them_ will shake their heads. 







###### 9 



Then all people [^m]will fear, And they [^n]will declare the work of God, And [^o]will consider [^p]what He has done. 







###### 10 



The righteous person will be glad in the LORD and take refuge in Him; And all the upright in heart will boast. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 64:1 Or _concern_ [^b]: Psalm 64:4 Lit _in_ [^c]: Psalm 64:5 Lit _matter_ [^d]: Psalm 64:5 Lit _tell of_ [^e]: Psalm 64:6 Or _search out_ [^f]: Psalm 64:6 Lit _complete_ [^g]: Psalm 64:6 Or _inward part_ [^h]: Psalm 64:6 Or _unsearchable_ [^i]: Psalm 64:7 Or _shot_ [^j]: Psalm 64:7 Or _they were wounded_; lit _their wounds occurred_ [^k]: Psalm 64:8 Or _they make their tongue a stumbling for themselves_ [^l]: Psalm 64:8 Or _made_ [^m]: Psalm 64:9 Or _feared_ [^n]: Psalm 64:9 Or _declared_ [^o]: Psalm 64:9 Or _considered_ [^p]: Psalm 64:9 Lit _His work_
