---
Aliases: [Psalms 61]
previous: ['Ps 60']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 62']
---
# Psalms 61

***








###### 1 



Hear my cry, God; Give _Your_ attention to my prayer. 







###### 2 



From the end of the earth I call to You when my heart is faint; Lead me to the rock that is higher than I. 







###### 3 



For You have been a refuge for me, A tower of strength against the enemy. 







###### 4 



Let me [^a]dwell in Your tent forever; Let me take refuge in the shelter of Your wings. Selah 







###### 5 



For You have heard my vows, God; You have given _me_ the inheritance of those who fear Your name. 







###### 6 



You will [^b]prolong the king's [^c]life; His years will be like generations. 







###### 7 



He will [^d]sit _enthroned_ before God forever; Appoint faithfulness and truth that they may watch over him. 







###### 8 



So I will sing praise to Your name forever, That I may pay my vows day by day. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 61:4 Or _sojourn_ [^b]: Psalm 61:6 Lit _add days to_ [^c]: Psalm 61:6 Lit _days_ [^d]: Psalm 61:7 Or _remain before_
