---
Aliases: [Psalms 68]
previous: ['Ps 67']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 69']
---
# Psalms 68

***








###### 1 



[^a]May God arise, [^b]may His enemies be scattered, And [^c]may those who hate Him flee from His presence. 







###### 2 



As smoke is driven away, _so_ drive _them_ away; As wax melts before a fire, _So_ the wicked will perish before God. 







###### 3 



But the righteous will be joyful; they will rejoice before God; Yes, they will rejoice with gladness. 







###### 4 



Sing to God, sing praises to His name; [^d]Exalt Him who rides through the deserts, Whose name is [^e]the LORD, and be jubilant before Him. 







###### 5 



A father of the fatherless and a judge [^f]for the widows, Is God in His holy dwelling. 







###### 6 



God [^g]makes a home for the lonely; He leads out the prisoners into prosperity, Only the rebellious live in parched lands. 







###### 7 



God, when You went forth before Your people, When You marched through the desert, Selah 







###### 8 



The earth quaked; The heavens also dropped _rain_ at the presence of God; [^h]Sinai itself _quaked_ at the presence of God, the God of Israel. 







###### 9 



You made plentiful rain fall, God; You confirmed Your inheritance when it was [^i]parched. 







###### 10 



Your creatures settled in it; In Your kindness You provided for the poor, God. 







###### 11 



The Lord gives the [^j]command; The women who proclaim good news are a great army: 







###### 12 



"Kings of armies flee, they flee, And she who remains at home will divide the spoils!" 







###### 13 



[^k]When you lie down among the sheepfolds, _You are like_ the wings of a dove covered with silver, And its pinions with [^l]glistening gold. 







###### 14 



When the Almighty scattered the kings [^m]there, It was snowing in Zalmon. 







###### 15 



The mountain of Bashan is a [^n]mountain of God; The mountain of Bashan is a mountain of many peaks. 







###### 16 



Why do you look with envy, you mountains of many peaks, At the mountain God has desired as His dwelling? Indeed, the LORD will dwell _there_ forever. 







###### 17 



The chariots of God are [^o]myriads, thousands upon thousands; [^p]The Lord is among them _as at_ Sinai, in holiness. 







###### 18 



You have ascended on high, You have led captive _Your_ captives; You have received gifts among people, Even _among_ the rebellious as well, that [^q]the LORD God may dwell _there_. 







###### 19 



Blessed be the Lord, who daily bears our burden, The God _who_ is our salvation. Selah 







###### 20 



God is to us a God of salvation; And to [^r]God the Lord belong ways of escape [^s]from death. 







###### 21 



God certainly will shatter the heads of His enemies, The hairy [^t]head of one who goes about in his guilt. 







###### 22 



The Lord [^u]said, "I will bring _them_ back from Bashan. I will bring _them_ back from the depths of the sea, 







###### 23 



So that [^v]your foot may shatter _them_ in blood, _And_ the tongue of your dogs _may have_ its portion from _your_ enemies." 







###### 24 



They have seen Your procession, God, The procession of my God, my King, [^w]into the sanctuary. 







###### 25 



The singers went on, the musicians after _them_, [^x]In the midst of the young women beating tambourines. 







###### 26 



Bless God in the congregations, _Even_ the LORD, _you who are_ of the fountain of Israel. 







###### 27 



Benjamin, the [^y]youngest, is there, [^z]ruling them, The leaders of Judah _in_ their company, The leaders of Zebulun, the leaders of Naphtali. 







###### 28 



[^aa]Your God has commanded your strength; Show Yourself strong, God, You who acted [^ab]in our behalf. 







###### 29 



[^ac]Because of Your temple at Jerusalem Kings will bring gifts to You. 







###### 30 



Rebuke the animals [^ad]in the reeds, The herd of bulls with the calves of the peoples, Trampling the pieces of silver; He has scattered the peoples who delight in war. 







###### 31 



[^ae]Messengers will come from Egypt; [^af]Cush will quickly stretch out her hands to God. 







###### 32 



Sing to God, you kingdoms of the earth, Sing praises to the Lord, Selah 







###### 33 



To Him who rides upon the [^ag]highest heavens, which are from ancient times; Behold, He [^ah]speaks with His voice, a mighty voice. 







###### 34 



Ascribe strength to God; His majesty is over Israel, And His strength is in the [^ai]skies. 







###### 35 



[^aj]God, _You are_ awesome from Your [^ak]sanctuary. The God of Israel Himself gives strength and power to the people. Blessed be God! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 68:1 Or _God shall_ [^b]: Psalm 68:1 Or _His enemies shall_ [^c]: Psalm 68:1 Or _those who hate Him shall_ [^d]: Psalm 68:4 Or _Prepare the way for Him_ [^e]: Psalm 68:4 Heb _Yah_ [^f]: Psalm 68:5 Lit _of_ [^g]: Psalm 68:6 Lit _makes the solitary to dwell in a house_ [^h]: Psalm 68:8 Lit _This is Sinai_ which [^i]: Psalm 68:9 Lit _weary_ [^j]: Psalm 68:11 Lit _word_ [^k]: Psalm 68:13 Lit _If_ [^l]: Psalm 68:13 I.e., gold alloyed with silver [^m]: Psalm 68:14 Lit _in it_ [^n]: Psalm 68:15 Or _mighty mountain_ [^o]: Psalm 68:17 Lit _twice 10,000_ [^p]: Psalm 68:17 Another reading is _The Lord came from Sinai into the sanctuary_ [^q]: Psalm 68:18 Heb _Yah_ [^r]: Psalm 68:20 Heb _YHWH_, usually rendered _Lord_ [^s]: Psalm 68:20 I.e., in view of; lit _for_ [^t]: Psalm 68:21 Lit _skull_ [^u]: Psalm 68:22 Or _says_ [^v]: Psalm 68:23 Some ancient versions render, you may _bathe your foot in blood_ [^w]: Psalm 68:24 Or _in holiness_ [^x]: Psalm 68:25 Or _The maidens in the midst_ [^y]: Psalm 68:27 Or _smallest_ [^z]: Psalm 68:27 Or _their ruler_ [^aa]: Psalm 68:28 Some mss _Command, God_ [^ab]: Psalm 68:28 Lit _for us_ [^ac]: Psalm 68:29 Or _From Your temple_ [^ad]: Psalm 68:30 Lit _of_ [^ae]: Psalm 68:31 As in LXX; MT uncertain, possibly, Articles of _bronze_; or Articles of _red cloth_ [^af]: Psalm 68:31 Or _Ethiopia_ [^ag]: Psalm 68:33 Lit _heaven of heavens of old_ [^ah]: Psalm 68:33 Lit _gives forth_ [^ai]: Psalm 68:34 Lit _clouds_ [^aj]: Psalm 68:35 Or _Awesome is God from your sanctuary_ [^ak]: Psalm 68:35 Lit _holy places_
