---
Aliases: [Psalms 66]
previous: ['Ps 65']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 67']
---
# Psalms 66

***








###### 1 



Shout joyfully to God, all the earth; 







###### 2 



Sing the glory of His name; Make His praise glorious. 







###### 3 



Say to God, "How awesome are Your works! Because of the greatness of Your power Your enemies will pretend to obey You. 







###### 4 



All the earth will worship You, And will sing praises to You; They will sing praises to Your name." Selah 







###### 5 



Come and see the works of God, _Who is_ awesome in _His_ deeds toward the sons of mankind. 







###### 6 



He turned the sea into dry land; They passed through the river on foot; Let's rejoice there, in Him! 







###### 7 



He rules by His might forever; His eyes keep watch on the nations; The rebellious shall not exalt themselves! Selah 







###### 8 



Bless our God, you peoples, And [^a]sound His praise abroad, 







###### 9 



Who [^b]keeps us in life, And does not allow our feet to [^c]slip. 







###### 10 



For You have put us to the test, God; You have refined us as silver is refined. 







###### 11 



You brought us into the net; You laid an oppressive burden upon [^d]us. 







###### 12 



You made men ride over our heads; We went through fire and through water. Yet You brought us out into _a place of_ abundance. 







###### 13 



I shall come into Your house with burnt offerings; I shall pay You my vows, 







###### 14 



Which my lips uttered And my mouth spoke when I was in distress. 







###### 15 



I shall offer to You burnt offerings of fat animals, With the smoke of rams; I shall make _an offering of_ [^e]bulls with male goats. Selah 







###### 16 



Come _and_ hear, all who [^f]fear God, And I will tell of what He has done for my soul. 







###### 17 



I cried to Him with my mouth, And [^g]He was exalted with my tongue. 







###### 18 



If I [^h]regard wickedness in my heart, The Lord will not hear; 







###### 19 



But God has heard; He has given attention to the sound of my prayer. 







###### 20 



Blessed be God, Who has not turned away my prayer Nor His favor from me. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 66:8 Lit _cause to hear the sound of His praise_ [^b]: Psalm 66:9 Lit _puts our soul in life_ [^c]: Psalm 66:9 Or _dodder, stumble_ [^d]: Psalm 66:11 Lit _our loins_ [^e]: Psalm 66:15 Or _cattle_ [^f]: Psalm 66:16 Or _revere_ [^g]: Psalm 66:17 Or _praise was under my tongue_ [^h]: Psalm 66:18 Or _had regarded_
