---
Aliases: [Psalms 72]
previous: ['Ps 71']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 73']
---
# Psalms 72

***








###### 1 



Give the king Your judgments, God, And Your righteousness to the king's son. 







###### 2 



[^a]May [^b]he judge Your people with righteousness And [^c]Your afflicted with justice. 







###### 3 



[^d]May the mountains bring [^e]peace to the people, And the hills, in righteousness. 







###### 4 



[^f]May he vindicate the [^g]afflicted of the people, Save the children of the needy, And crush the oppressor. 







###### 5 



[^h]May they fear You while the sun _shines_, And [^i]as long as the moon _shines_, throughout all generations. 







###### 6 



[^j]May he come down like rain upon the mown grass, Like showers that water the earth. 







###### 7 



[^k]May the righteous flourish in his days, As well as an abundance of peace, until the moon is no more. 







###### 8 



May he also rule from sea to sea, And from the _Euphrates_ River to the ends of the earth. 







###### 9 



[^l]May the nomads of the desert bow before him, And his enemies lick the dust. 







###### 10 



[^m]May the kings of Tarshish and of the [^n]islands bring gifts; May the kings of Sheba and Seba offer tributes. 







###### 11 



[^o]And may all kings bow down before him, All nations serve him. 







###### 12 



For he will save the needy when he cries for help, The [^p]afflicted also, and him who has no helper. 







###### 13 



He will have compassion on the poor and needy, And he will save the [^q]lives of the needy. 







###### 14 



He will [^r]rescue their [^s]life from oppression and violence, And their blood will be precious in his sight; 







###### 15 



So may he live, and may the gold of Sheba be given to him; And [^t]they are to pray for him continually; [^u]They are to bless him all day long. 







###### 16 



May there be abundance of grain on the earth on top of the mountains; Its fruit will wave like _the cedars of_ Lebanon; And may those from the city flourish like the vegetation of the earth. 







###### 17 



May his name endure forever; May his name produce descendants [^v]as long as the sun _shines_; And may _people_ wish blessings on themselves by him; May all nations call him blessed. 







###### 18 



Blessed be the LORD God, the God of Israel, Who alone works wonders. 







###### 19 



And blessed be His glorious name forever; And may the whole earth be filled with His glory. Amen and Amen. 







###### 20 



The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 72:2 Or _He_ will judge [^b]: Psalm 72:2 Many of the pronouns in this Psalm may be rendered _He_ since the typical reference is to the Messiah [^c]: Psalm 72:2 Or _Your humble_ [^d]: Psalm 72:3 Or _The mountains will bring_ [^e]: Psalm 72:3 Or _prosperity_ [^f]: Psalm 72:4 Or _He will vindicate_ [^g]: Psalm 72:4 Or _humble_ [^h]: Psalm 72:5 Or _They will fear_ [^i]: Psalm 72:5 Lit _before the moon_ [^j]: Psalm 72:6 Or _He will come down_ [^k]: Psalm 72:7 Or _The righteous will flourish_ [^l]: Psalm 72:9 Or _The nomads...will bow_ [^m]: Psalm 72:10 Or _The kings...will bring_ [^n]: Psalm 72:10 Or _coastlands_ [^o]: Psalm 72:11 Or _All kings will bow down_ [^p]: Psalm 72:12 Or _humble_ [^q]: Psalm 72:13 Lit _souls_ [^r]: Psalm 72:14 Lit _redeem_ [^s]: Psalm 72:14 Lit _soul_ [^t]: Psalm 72:15 Lit _he is to_ [^u]: Psalm 72:15 Lit _He is to_ [^v]: Psalm 72:17 Lit _before the sun_
