---
Aliases: [Psalms 73]
previous: ['Ps 72']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 74']
---
# Psalms 73

***








###### 1 



God certainly is good to Israel, To those who are pure in heart! 







###### 2 



But as for me, my feet came close to stumbling, My steps [^a]had almost slipped. 







###### 3 



For I was envious of the [^b]arrogant _As_ I saw the prosperity of the wicked. 







###### 4 



For there are no pains in their death, And their belly is fat. 







###### 5 



They are not [^c]in trouble like other people, Nor are they tormented together with _the rest of_ mankind. 







###### 6 



Therefore arrogance is their necklace; The garment of violence covers them. 







###### 7 



Their eye [^d]bulges from fatness; The imaginations of _their_ heart overflow. 







###### 8 



They mock and [^e]wickedly speak of oppression; They speak from on high. 







###### 9 



They have set their mouth [^f]against the heavens, And their tongue [^g]parades through the earth. 







###### 10 



Therefore [^h]his people return here, And abundant waters are drunk by them. 







###### 11 



They say, "How does God know? And is there knowledge [^i]with the Most High?" 







###### 12 



Behold, these are the wicked; And always at ease, they have increased _in_ wealth. 







###### 13 



Surely in vain I have [^j]kept my heart pure And washed my hands in innocence; 







###### 14 



For I have been stricken all day long, And [^k]punished every morning. 







###### 15 



If I had said, "I will speak this way," Behold, I would have betrayed the generation of Your children. 







###### 16 



When I thought of understanding this, It was [^l]troublesome in my sight 







###### 17 



Until I entered the [^m]sanctuary of God; _Then_ I perceived their end. 







###### 18 



You indeed put them on slippery ground; You dropped them into [^n]ruin. 







###### 19 



How they are [^o]destroyed in a moment! They are utterly swept away by sudden terrors! 







###### 20 



Like a dream when one awakes, Lord, when stirred, You will despise their image. 







###### 21 



When my heart was embittered And I was pierced [^p]within, 







###### 22 



Then I was stupid and ignorant; I was _like_ an animal [^q]before You. 







###### 23 



Nevertheless I am continually with You; You have taken hold of my right hand. 







###### 24 



You will guide me with Your plan, And afterward receive me [^r]to glory. 







###### 25 



Whom do I have in heaven _but You_? And with You, I desire nothing on earth. 







###### 26 



My flesh and my heart _may_ fail, _But_ God is the [^s]strength of my heart and my portion forever. 







###### 27 



For, behold, those who are far from You will perish; You have destroyed all those who [^t]are unfaithful to You. 







###### 28 



But as for me, the nearness of God is good for me; I have made the Lord [^u]God my refuge, So that I may tell of all Your works. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 73:2 Lit _were caused to slip_ [^b]: Psalm 73:3 Or _boasters_ [^c]: Psalm 73:5 Lit _in the trouble of people_ [^d]: Psalm 73:7 Lit _goes forth_ [^e]: Psalm 73:8 Or _they speak in wickedness; From on high they speak of oppression_ [^f]: Psalm 73:9 Or _in_ [^g]: Psalm 73:9 Lit _walks_ [^h]: Psalm 73:10 Or _His_ [^i]: Psalm 73:11 Lit _in_ [^j]: Psalm 73:13 Or _cleansed my heart_ [^k]: Psalm 73:14 Lit _my punishment_ [^l]: Psalm 73:16 Lit _labor, trouble_ [^m]: Psalm 73:17 Lit _sanctuaries_ [^n]: Psalm 73:18 Or _deception_ [^o]: Psalm 73:19 Lit _become a desolation_ [^p]: Psalm 73:21 Lit _in my kidneys_ [^q]: Psalm 73:22 Lit _with You_ [^r]: Psalm 73:24 Or _with honor_ [^s]: Psalm 73:26 Lit _rock_ [^t]: Psalm 73:27 Lit _go to a whoring from_ [^u]: Psalm 73:28 Heb _YHWH_, usually rendered _Lord_
