---
Aliases: [Psalms 74]
previous: ['Ps 73']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 75']
---
# Psalms 74

***








###### 1 



God, why have You rejected _us_ forever? _Why_ does Your anger smoke against the sheep of Your [^b]pasture? 







###### 2 



Remember Your congregation, _which_ You purchased of old, _Which_ You have redeemed to be the tribe of Your inheritance; _And_ this Mount Zion, where You have dwelt. 







###### 3 



[^c]Step toward the [^d]irreparable ruins; The enemy has damaged everything in the sanctuary. 







###### 4 



Your adversaries have roared in the midst of Your meeting place; They have set up their own signs as signs. 







###### 5 



It [^e]seems like one bringing up _His_ axe into a [^f]forest of trees. 







###### 6 



And now they break down [^g]all its carved work With axe and hammers. 







###### 7 



They have [^h]burned Your sanctuary [^i]to the ground; They have defiled the dwelling place of Your name. 







###### 8 



They said in their heart, "Let's [^j]completely [^k]subdue them." They have burned all the meeting places of God in the land. 







###### 9 



We do not see our signs; There is no longer any prophet, Nor is there _anyone_ among us who knows how long. 







###### 10 



How long, God, will the enemy taunt _You_? Shall the enemy treat Your name disrespectfully forever? 







###### 11 



Why do You withdraw Your hand, even Your right hand? _Extend it_ from Your chest _and_ destroy _them_! 







###### 12 



Yet God is my King from long ago, Who performs acts of salvation in the midst of the earth. 







###### 13 



[^l]You divided the sea by Your strength; [^m]You broke the heads of the sea monsters [^n]in the waters. 







###### 14 



[^o]You crushed the heads of [^p]Leviathan; You gave him as food for the [^q]creatures of the wilderness. 







###### 15 



[^r]You broke open springs and torrents; [^s]You dried up ever-flowing streams. 







###### 16 



Yours is the day, Yours also is the night; [^t]You have prepared the [^u]light and the sun. 







###### 17 



[^v]You have established all the boundaries of the earth; [^w]You have [^x]created summer and winter. 







###### 18 



Remember this, [^y]LORD, that the enemy has taunted _You_, And a foolish people has treated Your name disrespectfully. 







###### 19 



Do not give the soul of Your turtledove to the wild animal; Do not forget the life of Your afflicted forever. 







###### 20 



Consider the covenant; For the dark places of the land are full of the places of violence. 







###### 21 



May the oppressed person not return dishonored; May the afflicted and the needy praise Your name. 







###### 22 



Arise, God, _and_ plead Your own cause; Remember [^z]how the foolish person taunts You all day long. 







###### 23 



Do not forget the voice of Your adversaries, The uproar of those who rise against You, which ascends continually. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 74 Title Possibly, _Contemplative_; or _Didactic_; or _Skillful Psalm_ [^b]: Psalm 74:1 Or _pasturing_ [^c]: Psalm 74:3 Lit _Lift Your footsteps_ [^d]: Psalm 74:3 Lit _ruins_ ruined _for all time_ [^e]: Psalm 74:5 Lit _is known as_ [^f]: Psalm 74:5 Lit _thicket_ [^g]: Psalm 74:6 Lit _altogether_ [^h]: Psalm 74:7 Lit _set on fire_ [^i]: Psalm 74:7 Or _To the ground they_... [^j]: Psalm 74:8 Lit _altogether_ [^k]: Psalm 74:8 Or _oppress_ [^l]: Psalm 74:13 Or _You Yourself_ [^m]: Psalm 74:13 Or _You Yourself_ [^n]: Psalm 74:13 Lit _on_ [^o]: Psalm 74:14 Or _You Yourself_ [^p]: Psalm 74:14 Or _sea monster_ [^q]: Psalm 74:14 Lit _people_ [^r]: Psalm 74:15 Or _You Yourself_ [^s]: Psalm 74:15 Or _You Yourself_ [^t]: Psalm 74:16 Or _You Yourself_ [^u]: Psalm 74:16 Or _luminary_ [^v]: Psalm 74:17 Or _You Yourself_ [^w]: Psalm 74:17 Or _You Yourself_ [^x]: Psalm 74:17 Or _formed_ [^y]: Psalm 74:18 Or _that the enemy has taunted the _Lord__ [^z]: Psalm 74:22 Lit _Your reproach from the foolish man_
