---
Aliases: [Psalms 76]
previous: ['Ps 75']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 77']
---
# Psalms 76

***








###### 1 



God is known in Judah; His name is great in Israel. 







###### 2 



His [^a]tabernacle is in Salem; His dwelling place also is in Zion. 







###### 3 



There He broke the [^b]flaming arrows, The shield, the sword, and the [^c]weapons of war. Selah 







###### 4 



You are resplendent, [^d]More majestic than the mountains of prey. 







###### 5 



The stouthearted were plundered, [^e]They sank into sleep; And none of the [^f]warriors could use his hands. 







###### 6 



At Your rebuke, God of Jacob, Both [^g]rider and horse were cast into a dead sleep. 







###### 7 



You, You _indeed_ are to be feared, And who may stand in Your presence, [^h]once You are angry? 







###### 8 



You caused judgment to be heard from heaven; The earth feared and was still 







###### 9 



When God arose to judgment, To save all the humble of the earth. Selah 







###### 10 



For the [^i]wrath of mankind shall praise You; You will encircle Yourself with a remnant of wrath. 







###### 11 



Make vows to the LORD your God and fulfill _them_; All who are around Him are to bring gifts to Him who is to be feared. 







###### 12 



He will cut off the spirit of princes; He is [^j]feared by the kings of the earth. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 76:2 Lit _shelter_ [^b]: Psalm 76:3 Lit _fiery shafts of the bow_ [^c]: Psalm 76:3 Lit _battle_ [^d]: Psalm 76:4 Or _Majestic from the mountains_ [^e]: Psalm 76:5 Lit _They slumbered their sleep_ [^f]: Psalm 76:5 Lit _men of might have found their hands_ [^g]: Psalm 76:6 Lit _chariot_ [^h]: Psalm 76:7 Lit _since Your anger_ [^i]: Psalm 76:10 Lit _wraths_ [^j]: Psalm 76:12 Lit _awesome to_
