---
Aliases: [Psalms 75]
previous: ['Ps 74']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 76']
---
# Psalms 75

***








###### 1 



We give thanks to You, God, we give thanks, For Your name is near; People declare Your wondrous works. 







###### 2 



"When I select an appointed time, It is I who judge fairly. 







###### 3 



The earth and all who inhabit it [^b]are unsteady; It is I who have firmly set its pillars. Selah 







###### 4 



I said to the boastful, 'Do not boast,' And to the wicked, 'Do not lift up the horn; 







###### 5 



Do not lift up your horn on high, Do not speak with insolent [^c]pride.'" 







###### 6 



For not from the east, nor from the west, Nor from the [^d]desert _comes_ exaltation; 







###### 7 



But God is the Judge; He puts down one and exalts another. 







###### 8 



For a cup is in the hand of the LORD, and the wine foams; It is [^e]well mixed, and He pours out of this; Certainly all the wicked of the earth must drain _and_ drink its dregs. 







###### 9 



But as for me, I will declare _it_ forever; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob. 







###### 10 



And [^f]He will cut off all the horns of the wicked, _But_ the horns of the righteous will be lifted up. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 75 Title Lit _Do Not Destroy_ [^b]: Psalm 75:3 Lit _totter_ [^c]: Psalm 75:5 Lit _neck_ [^d]: Psalm 75:6 Or _mountainous desert_ [^e]: Psalm 75:8 Lit _full of mixture_ [^f]: Psalm 75:10 Heb _I_
