---
Aliases: [Psalms 71]
previous: ['Ps 70']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 72']
---
# Psalms 71

***








###### 1 



In You, LORD, I have taken refuge; Let me never be put to shame. 







###### 2 



In Your righteousness rescue me and save me; Extend Your ear to me and help me. 







###### 3 



Be to me a rock of dwelling to which I may continually come; You have given the commandment to save me, For You are my rock and my fortress. 







###### 4 



Save me, my God, from the hand of the wicked, From the [^a]grasp of the wrongdoer and the ruthless, 







###### 5 



For You are my hope; Lord [^b]God, _You are_ my confidence from my youth. 







###### 6 



I have leaned on you since _my_ birth; You are He who took me from my mother's womb; My praise is continually [^c]of You. 







###### 7 



I have become a marvel to many, For You are my strong refuge. 







###### 8 



My mouth is filled with Your praise And with Your glory all day long. 







###### 9 



Do not cast me away at the time of _my_ old age; Do not abandon me when my strength fails. 







###### 10 



For my enemies have spoken [^d]against me; And those who watch for my [^e]life have consulted together, 







###### 11 



Saying, "God has abandoned him; Pursue and seize him, for there is no one to save _him_." 







###### 12 



God, do not be far from me; My God, hurry to my aid! 







###### 13 



May those who are enemies of my soul be put to shame _and_ consumed; May they be covered with disgrace and dishonor, who seek [^f]to injure me. 







###### 14 



But as for me, I will wait continually, And will [^g]praise You yet more and more. 







###### 15 



My mouth shall tell of Your righteousness _And_ of Your salvation all day long; For I do not know the art of writing. 







###### 16 



I will come with the mighty deeds of the Lord [^h]God; I will make mention of Your righteousness, Yours alone. 







###### 17 



God, You have taught me from my youth, And I still declare Your wondrous deeds. 







###### 18 



And even when _I am_ old and gray, God, do not abandon me, Until I declare Your [^i]strength to _this_ generation, Your power to all who are to come. 







###### 19 



[^j]For Your righteousness, God, _reaches_ to the [^k]heavens, You who have done great things; God, who is like You? 







###### 20 



You who have shown [^l]me many troubles and distresses Will revive [^m]me again, And will bring [^n]me up again from the depths of the earth. 







###### 21 



May You increase my greatness And turn _to_ comfort me. 







###### 22 



I will also praise You with [^o]a harp, _And_ Your [^p]truth, my God; I will sing praises to You with the lyre, Holy One of Israel. 







###### 23 



My lips will shout for joy when I sing praises to You; And my soul, which You have redeemed. 







###### 24 



My tongue also will tell of Your righteousness all day long; For they are put to shame, for they are humiliated who seek [^q]my harm. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 71:4 Lit _palm_ [^b]: Psalm 71:5 Heb _YHWH_, usually rendered _Lord_ [^c]: Psalm 71:6 Lit _in_ [^d]: Psalm 71:10 Lit _with reference to_ [^e]: Psalm 71:10 Lit _soul_ [^f]: Psalm 71:13 Lit _my injury_ [^g]: Psalm 71:14 Lit _add upon all Your praise_ [^h]: Psalm 71:16 Heb _YHWH_, usually rendered _Lord_ [^i]: Psalm 71:18 Lit _arm_ [^j]: Psalm 71:19 Or _And_ [^k]: Psalm 71:19 Lit _height_ [^l]: Psalm 71:20 Another reading is _us_ [^m]: Psalm 71:20 Another reading is _us_ [^n]: Psalm 71:20 Another reading is _us_ [^o]: Psalm 71:22 Lit _an instrument of a harp_ [^p]: Psalm 71:22 Or _faithfulness_ [^q]: Psalm 71:24 Or _to injure me_
