---
Aliases: [Psalms 79]
previous: ['Ps 78']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 80']
---
# Psalms 79

***








###### 1 



God, the nations have [^a]invaded Your inheritance; They have defiled Your holy temple; They have laid Jerusalem in ruins. 







###### 2 



They have given the dead bodies of Your servants to the birds of the sky as food, The flesh of Your godly ones to the animals of the earth. 







###### 3 



They have poured out their blood like water all around Jerusalem; And there was no one to bury them. 







###### 4 



We have become a disgrace before our neighbors, An _object of_ derision and ridicule to those around us. 







###### 5 



How long, LORD? Will You be angry forever? Will Your jealousy burn like fire? 







###### 6 



Pour out Your wrath upon the nations which do not know You, And upon the kingdoms which do not call upon Your name. 







###### 7 



For they have devoured Jacob And laid waste his [^b]settlement. 







###### 8 



Do not [^c]hold us responsible for [^d]the guilty deeds of _our_ forefathers; Let Your compassion come quickly to meet us, For we have become very low. 







###### 9 



Help us, God of our salvation, for the glory of Your name; And save us and [^e]forgive our sins for the sake of Your name. 







###### 10 



Why should the nations say, "Where is their God?" Let vengeance for the blood of Your servants which has been shed Be known among the nations in our sight. 







###### 11 



Let the groaning of the prisoner come before You; According to the greatness of Your [^f]power, let [^g]those who are doomed to die remain. 







###### 12 



And return to our neighbors seven times _as much_ into their lap Their taunts with which they have taunted You, Lord. 







###### 13 



So we Your people and the sheep of Your [^h]pasture Will give thanks to You forever; To all generations we will tell of Your praise. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 79:1 Lit _come into_ [^b]: Psalm 79:7 Lit _pasture_ [^c]: Psalm 79:8 Lit _remember against us_ [^d]: Psalm 79:8 Or our _former sins_ [^e]: Psalm 79:9 Lit _cover over, atone for_ [^f]: Psalm 79:11 Lit _arm_ [^g]: Psalm 79:11 Lit _the sons of death_ [^h]: Psalm 79:13 Or _pasturing_
