---
Aliases: [Psalms 77]
previous: ['Ps 76']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 78']
---
# Psalms 77

***








###### 1 



My voice _rises_ to God, and I will cry aloud; My voice _rises_ to God, and He will listen to me. 







###### 2 



In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord; In the night my hand was stretched out and did not grow weary; My soul refused to be comforted. 







###### 3 



_When_ I remember God, then I am restless; _When_ I sigh, then my spirit feels weak. Selah 







###### 4 



You have held my eyelids _open_; I am so troubled that I cannot speak. 







###### 5 



I have considered the days of old, The years of long ago. 







###### 6 



I will remember my song in the night; I will meditate with my heart, And my spirit [^b]ponders: 







###### 7 



Will the Lord reject forever? And will He never be favorable again? 







###### 8 



Has His favor ceased forever? Has _His_ [^c]promise come to an end [^d]forever? 







###### 9 



Has God forgotten to be gracious, Or has He in anger [^e]withdrawn His compassion? Selah 







###### 10 



Then I said, "It is my [^f]grief, That the right hand of the Most High has changed." 







###### 11 



I shall remember the deeds of [^g]the LORD; I will certainly remember Your wonders of old. 







###### 12 



I will meditate on all Your work, And on Your deeds with thanksgiving. 







###### 13 



Your way, God, is holy; What god is great like our God? 







###### 14 



You are the God who works wonders; You have made known Your strength among the peoples. 







###### 15 



By Your [^h]power You have redeemed Your people, The sons of Jacob and Joseph. Selah 







###### 16 



The waters saw You, God; The waters saw You, they were in anguish; The ocean depths also trembled. 







###### 17 



The clouds poured out water; The skies [^i]sounded out; Your arrows [^j]flashed here and there. 







###### 18 



The sound of Your thunder was in the whirlwind; The lightning lit up the world; The earth trembled and shook. 







###### 19 



Your way was in the sea And Your paths in the mighty waters, And Your footprints were not known. 







###### 20 



You led Your people like a flock By the hand of Moses and Aaron. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 77 Title 1 Chr 16:41 [^b]: Psalm 77:6 Lit _searched_ [^c]: Psalm 77:8 Lit _word_ [^d]: Psalm 77:8 Lit _from generation to generation_ [^e]: Psalm 77:9 Lit _shut up_ [^f]: Psalm 77:10 Or _infirmity, the years of the right hand of the Most High_ [^g]: Psalm 77:11 Heb _Yah_ [^h]: Psalm 77:15 Lit _arm_ [^i]: Psalm 77:17 Lit _gave a sound_ [^j]: Psalm 77:17 Lit _went_
