---
Aliases: [Psalms 89]
previous: ['Ps 88']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 90']
---
# Psalms 89

***








###### 1 



I will sing of the graciousness of the LORD forever; To all generations I will make Your faithfulness known with my mouth. 







###### 2 



For I have said, "Graciousness will be built up forever; In the heavens You will establish Your faithfulness." 







###### 3 



"I have made a covenant with My chosen; I have sworn to My servant David, 







###### 4 



I will establish your [^d]descendants forever And build up your throne to all generations." Selah 







###### 5 



The heavens will praise Your wonders, LORD; Your faithfulness also in the assembly of the holy ones. 







###### 6 



For who in the skies is comparable to the LORD? Who among the [^e]sons of the mighty is like the LORD, 







###### 7 



A God greatly feared in the council of the holy ones, And awesome above all those who are around Him? 







###### 8 



LORD God of armies, who is like You, mighty [^f]LORD? Your faithfulness also surrounds You. 







###### 9 



You rule the surging of the sea; When its waves rise, You calm them. 







###### 10 



You Yourself crushed [^g]Rahab like one who is slain; You scattered Your enemies with [^h]Your mighty arm. 







###### 11 



The heavens are Yours, the earth also is Yours; The world and [^i]all it contains, You have established them. 







###### 12 



The north and the south, You have created them; Tabor and Hermon shout for joy at Your name. 







###### 13 



You have [^j]a strong arm; Your hand is mighty, Your right hand is exalted. 







###### 14 



Righteousness and justice are the foundation of Your throne; Mercy and [^k]truth go before You. 







###### 15 



Blessed are the people who know the [^l]joyful sound! LORD, they walk in the light of Your face. 







###### 16 



In Your name they rejoice all the day, And by Your righteousness they are exalted. 







###### 17 



For You are the glory of their strength, And by Your favor [^m]our horn is exalted. 







###### 18 



For our shield belongs to the LORD, [^n]And our king to the Holy One of Israel. 







###### 19 



[^o]Once You spoke in vision to Your godly [^p]ones, And said, "I have [^q]given help to one who is mighty; I have exalted one chosen from the people. 







###### 20 



I have found My servant David; With My holy oil I have anointed him, 







###### 21 



With whom My hand will be established; My arm also will strengthen him. 







###### 22 



The enemy will not [^r]deceive him, Nor will the [^s]son of wickedness afflict him. 







###### 23 



But I will crush his adversaries before him, And strike those who hate him. 







###### 24 



My faithfulness and My favor _will be_ with him, And in My name his horn will be exalted. 







###### 25 



I will also place his hand on the sea, And his right hand on the rivers. 







###### 26 



He will call to Me, 'You are my Father, My God, and the rock of my salvation.' 







###### 27 



I will also make him _My_ firstborn, The highest of the kings of the earth. 







###### 28 



I will maintain My favor for him forever, And My covenant shall be confirmed to him. 







###### 29 



So I will establish his [^t]descendants forever, And his throne as the days of heaven. 







###### 30 



"If his sons abandon My Law And do not walk in My judgments, 







###### 31 



If they [^u]violate My statutes And do not keep My commandments, 







###### 32 



Then I will punish their wrongdoing with the rod, And their guilt with [^v]afflictions. 







###### 33 



But I will not [^w]withhold My favor from him, Nor deal falsely in My faithfulness. 







###### 34 



I will not [^x]violate My covenant, Nor will I alter [^y]the utterance of My lips. 







###### 35 



[^z]Once I have sworn by My holiness; I will not lie to David. 







###### 36 



His [^aa]descendants shall endure forever, And his throne as the sun before Me. 







###### 37 



It shall be established forever like the moon, And a witness in the sky is faithful." Selah 







###### 38 



But You have rejected and refused, You have been full of wrath [^ab]against Your anointed. 







###### 39 



You have [^ac]repudiated the covenant of Your servant; You have profaned his crown [^ad]in the dust. 







###### 40 



You have broken down all his walls; You have brought his strongholds to ruin. 







###### 41 



All who pass along the way plunder him; He has become a disgrace to his neighbors. 







###### 42 



You have exalted the right hand of his adversaries; You have made all his enemies rejoice. 







###### 43 



You also turn back the edge of his sword, And have not made him stand in battle. 







###### 44 



You have put an end to his [^ae]splendor And cast his throne to the ground. 







###### 45 



You have shortened the days of his youth; You have covered him with shame. Selah 







###### 46 



How long, LORD? Will You hide Yourself forever? Will Your wrath burn like fire? 







###### 47 



Remember [^af]what my lifespan is; For what futility [^ag]You have created all the sons of mankind! 







###### 48 



What man can live and not see death? Can he save his soul from the [^ah]power of [^ai]Sheol? Selah 







###### 49 



Where are Your former acts of favor, Lord, _Which_ You swore to David in Your faithfulness? 







###### 50 



Remember, Lord, the taunt against Your servants; [^aj]How I carry in my heart _the taunts of_ all the many peoples, 







###### 51 



With which Your enemies have taunted, LORD, With which they have taunted the footsteps of Your anointed. 







###### 52 



Blessed be the LORD forever! Amen and Amen. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 89 Title Possibly, _Contemplative_; or _Didactic_; or _Skillful Psalm_ [^b]: Psalm 89 Title 1 Kin 4:31 [^c]: Psalm 89 Title Ps 88: title [^d]: Psalm 89:4 Lit _seed_ [^e]: Psalm 89:6 Or _sons of gods_ [^f]: Psalm 89:8 Heb _Yah_ [^g]: Psalm 89:10 I.e., Egypt, as a sea monster; not to be confused with Rahab in Joshua 2 [^h]: Psalm 89:10 Lit _the arm of Your might_ [^i]: Psalm 89:11 Lit _its fullness_ [^j]: Psalm 89:13 Lit _an arm with strength_ [^k]: Psalm 89:14 Or _faithfulness_ [^l]: Psalm 89:15 Or _blast of the trumpet, shout of joy_ [^m]: Psalm 89:17 Another reading is _You exalt our horn_ [^n]: Psalm 89:18 Or _Even to the Holy One of Israel our King_ [^o]: Psalm 89:19 Or _At that time_ [^p]: Psalm 89:19 Some mss _one_ [^q]: Psalm 89:19 Lit _placed help upon_ [^r]: Psalm 89:22 Or _exact usury from him_ [^s]: Psalm 89:22 Or _wicked man_ [^t]: Psalm 89:29 Lit _seed_ [^u]: Psalm 89:31 Lit _profane_ [^v]: Psalm 89:32 Or _plagues_ [^w]: Psalm 89:33 Lit _break_ [^x]: Psalm 89:34 Lit _profane_ [^y]: Psalm 89:34 Lit _that which goes forth_ [^z]: Psalm 89:35 Or _One thing_ [^aa]: Psalm 89:36 Lit _seed_ [^ab]: Psalm 89:38 Lit _with_ [^ac]: Psalm 89:39 I.e., scornfully rejected [^ad]: Psalm 89:39 Lit _to the ground_ [^ae]: Psalm 89:44 Lit _clearness, luster_ [^af]: Psalm 89:47 Lit _of what duration I am_ [^ag]: Psalm 89:47 Or _have You...mankind?_ [^ah]: Psalm 89:48 Lit _hand_ [^ai]: Psalm 89:48 I.e., the netherworld [^aj]: Psalm 89:50 Lit _My bearing in my chest_
