---
Aliases: [Psalms 86]
previous: ['Ps 85']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 87']
---
# Psalms 86

***








###### 1 



Incline Your ear, LORD, _and_ answer me; For I am afflicted and needy. 







###### 2 



Protect my [^a]soul, for I am godly; You my God, save Your servant who trusts in You. 







###### 3 



Be gracious to me, Lord, For I call upon You all day long. 







###### 4 



Make the soul of Your servant joyful, For to You, Lord, I lift up my soul. 







###### 5 



For You, Lord, are good, and ready to forgive, And abundant in mercy to all who call upon You. 







###### 6 



Listen, LORD, to my prayer; And give _Your_ attention to the sound of my pleading! 







###### 7 



On the day of my trouble I will call upon You, For You will answer me. 







###### 8 



There is no one like You among the gods, Lord, Nor are there any works like Yours. 







###### 9 



All nations whom You have made will come and worship before You, Lord, And they will glorify Your name. 







###### 10 



For You are great, and you do [^b]wondrous deeds; You alone are God. 







###### 11 



Teach me Your way, LORD; I will walk in Your truth; Unite my heart to fear Your name. 







###### 12 



I will give thanks to You, Lord my God, with all my heart, And I will glorify Your name forever. 







###### 13 



For Your graciousness toward me is great, And You have saved my soul from the [^c]depths of [^d]Sheol. 







###### 14 



God, arrogant men have risen up against me, And a gang of violent men have sought my [^e]life, And they have not set You before them. 







###### 15 



But You, Lord, are a compassionate and gracious God, Slow to anger and abundant in mercy and [^f]truth. 







###### 16 



Turn to me, and be gracious to me; Grant Your strength to Your servant, And save the son of Your maidservant. 







###### 17 



Show me a sign of good, That those who hate me may see _it_ and be ashamed, Because You, LORD, have helped me and comforted me. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 86:2 Or _life_ [^b]: Psalm 86:10 Or _miracles_ [^c]: Psalm 86:13 Lit _lowest Sheol_ [^d]: Psalm 86:13 I.e., the netherworld [^e]: Psalm 86:14 Lit _soul_ [^f]: Psalm 86:15 Or _faithfulness_
