---
Aliases: [Psalms 88]
previous: ['Ps 87']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 89']
---
# Psalms 88

***








###### 1 



LORD, the God of my salvation, I have cried out by day and in the night before You. 







###### 2 



Let my prayer come before You; Incline Your ear to my cry! 







###### 3 



For my soul has [^c]had enough troubles, And my life has approached [^d]Sheol. 







###### 4 



I am counted among those who go down to the pit; I have become like a man without strength, 







###### 5 



[^e]Abandoned among the dead, Like the slain who lie in the grave, Whom You no longer remember, And they are cut off from Your hand. 







###### 6 



You have put me in the lowest pit, In dark places, in the depths. 







###### 7 



Your wrath has rested upon me, And You have afflicted me with all Your waves. Selah 







###### 8 



You have removed my acquaintances far from me; You have made me an [^f]object of loathing to them; I am shut up and cannot go out. 







###### 9 



My eye grows dim from misery; I have called upon You every day, LORD; I have spread out my [^g]hands to You. 







###### 10 



Will You perform wonders for the dead? Or will the departed spirits rise _and_ praise You? Selah 







###### 11 



Will Your graciousness be declared in the grave, Your faithfulness in [^h]Abaddon? 







###### 12 



Will Your wonders be made known in the darkness? And Your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness? 







###### 13 



But I, LORD, have cried out to You for help, And in the morning my prayer comes before You. 







###### 14 



LORD, why do You reject my soul? _Why_ do You hide Your face from me? 







###### 15 



I was miserable and about to die from my youth on; I suffer Your terrors; I grow weary. 







###### 16 



Your burning anger has passed over me; Your terrors have [^i]destroyed me. 







###### 17 



They have surrounded me like water all day long; They have encircled me altogether. 







###### 18 



You have removed lover and friend far from me; My acquaintances are _in_ a hiding place. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 88 Title Possibly, _Contemplative_; or _Didactic_; or _Skillful Psalm_ [^b]: Psalm 88 Title 1 Kin 4:31; 1 Chr 2:6; Ps 89: title [^c]: Psalm 88:3 Or _been satisfied with_ [^d]: Psalm 88:3 I.e., the netherworld [^e]: Psalm 88:5 Lit _A freed one among the dead_ [^f]: Psalm 88:8 Lit _abomination to them_ [^g]: Psalm 88:9 Lit _palms_ [^h]: Psalm 88:11 I.e., place of destruction [^i]: Psalm 88:16 Or _silenced_
