---
Aliases: [Psalms 80]
previous: ['Ps 79']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 81']
---
# Psalms 80

***








###### 1 



Listen, Shepherd of Israel, Who leads Joseph like a flock; You who are enthroned _above_ the cherubim, shine forth! 







###### 2 



Before Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasseh, awaken Your power, And come to save us! 







###### 3 



God, restore us And make Your face shine _upon us_, [^c]and we will be saved. 







###### 4 



LORD God of armies, How long will You [^d]be angry with the prayer of Your people? 







###### 5 



You have fed them with the bread of tears, And You have made them drink tears in [^e]large measure. 







###### 6 



You make us [^f]an object of contention to our neighbors, And our enemies laugh among themselves. 







###### 7 



God of armies, restore us And make Your face shine _upon us_, [^g]and we will be saved. 







###### 8 



You removed a vine from Egypt; You drove out the [^h]nations and planted it. 







###### 9 



You cleared _the ground_ before it, And it took deep root and filled the land. 







###### 10 



The mountains were covered with its shadow, And [^i]the cedars of God with its branches. 







###### 11 



It was sending out its branches to the sea And its shoots to the _Euphrates_ River. 







###### 12 



Why have You broken down its [^j]hedges, So that all who pass _that_ way pick its _fruit_? 







###### 13 



A boar from the forest eats it away, And whatever moves in the field feeds on it. 







###### 14 



God of armies, do turn back; Look down from heaven and see, and take care of this vine, 







###### 15 



The [^k]shoot which Your right hand has planted, And of the [^l]son whom You have [^m]strengthened for Yourself. 







###### 16 



It is burned with fire, it is cut down; They perish from the rebuke of Your face. 







###### 17 



Let Your hand be upon the man of Your right hand, Upon the son of man whom You made strong for Yourself. 







###### 18 



Then we will not turn back from You; Revive us, and we will call upon Your name. 







###### 19 



LORD God of armies, restore us; Make Your face shine _upon us_, [^n]and we will be saved. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 80 Title Possibly, _to the Lilies_ [^b]: Psalm 80 Title Lit _A testimony_ [^c]: Psalm 80:3 Or _that we may_ [^d]: Psalm 80:4 Lit _smoke against_ [^e]: Psalm 80:5 Lit _a third part of a_ [^f]: Psalm 80:6 Lit _strife to_ [^g]: Psalm 80:7 Or _that we may_ [^h]: Psalm 80:8 Or _Gentiles_ [^i]: Psalm 80:10 Or _its boughs are like the cedars of God_ [^j]: Psalm 80:12 Or _walls, fences_ [^k]: Psalm 80:15 Or _root_ [^l]: Psalm 80:15 Or figuratively: _branch_ [^m]: Psalm 80:15 Or _secured_ [^n]: Psalm 80:19 Or _that we may_
