---
Aliases: [Psalms 85]
previous: ['Ps 84']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 86']
---
# Psalms 85

***








###### 1 



LORD, You showed favor to Your land; You restored the fortunes of Jacob. 







###### 2 



You forgave the guilt of Your people; You covered all their sin. Selah 







###### 3 



You withdrew all Your fury; You turned away from Your burning anger. 







###### 4 



Restore us, God of our salvation, And cause Your indignation toward us to cease. 







###### 5 



Will You be angry with us forever? Will You prolong Your anger to [^a]all generations? 







###### 6 



Will You not [^b]revive us again, So that Your people may rejoice in You? 







###### 7 



Show us Your mercy, LORD, And grant us Your salvation. 







###### 8 



[^c]I will hear what God the LORD will say; For He will speak peace to His people, to His godly ones; And may they not turn back to [^d]foolishness. 







###### 9 



Certainly His salvation is near to those who [^e]fear Him, That glory may dwell in our land. 







###### 10 



Graciousness and [^f]truth have met together; Righteousness and peace have kissed each other. 







###### 11 



[^g]Truth sprouts from the earth, And righteousness looks down from heaven. 







###### 12 



Indeed, the LORD will give what is good, And our land will yield its produce. 







###### 13 



Righteousness will go before Him And will make His footsteps into a way. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 85:5 Lit _generation and generation_ [^b]: Psalm 85:6 Or _bring to life_ [^c]: Psalm 85:8 Or _Let me hear_ [^d]: Psalm 85:8 I.e., foolish self-confidence [^e]: Psalm 85:9 Or _revere_ [^f]: Psalm 85:10 Or _faithfulness_ [^g]: Psalm 85:11 Or _Faithfulness_
