---
Aliases: [Psalms 81]
previous: ['Ps 80']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 82']
---
# Psalms 81

***








###### 1 



Sing for joy to God our strength; Shout joyfully to the God of Jacob. 







###### 2 



Raise a song, strike the tambourine, The sweet sounding lyre with the harp. 







###### 3 



Blow the trumpet at the new moon, At the full moon, on our feast day. 







###### 4 



For it is a statute for Israel, An ordinance of the God of Jacob. 







###### 5 



He established it as a testimony in Joseph When he [^b]went throughout the land of Egypt. I heard a language I did not know: 







###### 6 



"I [^c]relieved his shoulder of the burden, His hands were freed from the [^d]basket. 







###### 7 



You called in trouble and I rescued you; I answered you in the hiding place of thunder; I put you to the test at the waters of Meribah. Selah 







###### 8 



Hear, My people, and I will admonish you; Israel, if you would listen to Me! 







###### 9 



There shall be no strange god among you; Nor shall you worship a foreign god. 







###### 10 



I, the LORD, am your God, Who brought you up from the land of Egypt; Open your mouth wide and I will fill it. 







###### 11 



"But My people did not listen to My voice, And Israel did not [^e]obey Me. 







###### 12 



So I gave [^f]them over to the stubbornness of their heart, To walk by their own plans. 







###### 13 



Oh that My people would listen to Me, That Israel would walk in My ways! 







###### 14 



I would quickly subdue their enemies And turn My hand against their adversaries. 







###### 15 



Those who hate the LORD would pretend to obey Him, And their time _of punishment_ would be forever. 







###### 16 



[^g]But I would feed you with the [^h]finest of the wheat, And with honey from the rock I would satisfy you." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 81 Title Or _according to_ [^b]: Psalm 81:5 Lit _went out over_ [^c]: Psalm 81:6 Lit _removed his shoulder from_ [^d]: Psalm 81:6 Or _brick load_ [^e]: Psalm 81:11 Lit _yield to_ [^f]: Psalm 81:12 Lit _him_ [^g]: Psalm 81:16 Lit _He would feed him_ [^h]: Psalm 81:16 Lit _fat_
