---
Aliases: [Psalms 83]
previous: ['Ps 82']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 84']
---
# Psalms 83

***








###### 1 



God, do not remain quiet; Do not be silent and, God, do not be still. 







###### 2 



For behold, Your enemies make an uproar, And those who hate You have [^a]exalted themselves. 







###### 3 



They make shrewd plans against Your people, And [^b]conspire together against Your [^c]treasured ones. 







###### 4 



They have said, "Come, and let's wipe them out [^d]as a nation, So that the name of Israel will no longer be remembered." 







###### 5 



For they have [^e]conspired together with one mind; They make a covenant against You: 







###### 6 



The tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites, Moab and the Hagrites; 







###### 7 



Gebal, Ammon, and Amalek, Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre; 







###### 8 



Assyria also has joined them; They have become [^f]a help to the children of Lot. Selah 







###### 9 



Deal with them as with Midian, As with Sisera _and_ Jabin at the river of Kishon, 







###### 10 



Who were destroyed at En-dor, Who became _like_ dung for the ground. 







###### 11 



Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb, And all their leaders like Zebah and Zalmunna, 







###### 12 



Who said, "Let's possess for ourselves The pastures of God." 







###### 13 



My God, make them like the [^g]whirling dust, Like chaff before the wind. 







###### 14 



Like fire that burns the forest, And like a flame that sets the mountains on fire, 







###### 15 



So pursue them with Your heavy gale, And terrify them with Your storm. 







###### 16 



Fill their faces with dishonor, So that they will seek Your name, LORD. 







###### 17 



May they be ashamed and dismayed forever, And may they be humiliated and perish, 







###### 18 



So that they will know that You alone, whose name is the LORD, Are the Most High over all the earth. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 83:2 Lit _lifted up the head_ [^b]: Psalm 83:3 Or _consult_ [^c]: Psalm 83:3 Or _hidden ones_ [^d]: Psalm 83:4 Lit _from_ [^e]: Psalm 83:5 Or _consulted_ [^f]: Psalm 83:8 Lit _an arm_ [^g]: Psalm 83:13 Or _tumbleweed_
