---
Aliases: [Psalms 84]
previous: ['Ps 83']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 85']
---
# Psalms 84

***








###### 1 



How lovely are Your dwelling places, LORD of armies! 







###### 2 



My soul longed and even yearned for the courtyards of the LORD; My heart and my flesh sing for joy to the living God. 







###### 3 



The bird also has found a house, And the swallow a nest for herself, where she may put her young: Your altars, LORD of armies, My King and my God. 







###### 4 



Blessed are those who dwell in Your house! They are ever praising You. Selah 







###### 5 



Blessed is the person whose strength is in You, In [^b]whose heart are the roads _to Zion_! 







###### 6 



Passing through the Valley of [^c]Baca they make it a [^d]spring; The early rain also covers it with blessings. 







###### 7 



They go from strength to strength, [^e]_Every one of them_ appears before God in Zion. 







###### 8 



LORD God of armies, hear my prayer; Listen, God of Jacob! Selah 







###### 9 



See our shield, God, And look at the face of Your anointed. 







###### 10 



For a day in Your courtyards is better than a thousand _elsewhere_. I would rather stand at the threshold of the house of my God Than live in the tents of wickedness. 







###### 11 



For the LORD God is a sun and shield; The LORD gives grace and glory; He withholds no good thing [^f]from those who walk with integrity. 







###### 12 



LORD of armies, Blessed is the person who trusts in You! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 84 Title Or _according to_ [^b]: Psalm 84:5 Lit _their_ [^c]: Psalm 84:6 Prob. _Weeping_; or _Balsam-shrubs_ [^d]: Psalm 84:6 Or _place of springs_ [^e]: Psalm 84:7 Some ancient versions _The God of gods will be seen in Zion_ [^f]: Psalm 84:11 Lit _with regard to_
