---
Aliases: [Psalms 92]
previous: ['Ps 91']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 93']
---
# Psalms 92

***








###### 1 



It is good to give thanks to the LORD And to sing praises to Your name, Most High; 







###### 2 



To declare Your goodness in the morning And Your faithfulness by [^a]night, 







###### 3 



[^b]With the ten-stringed lute and [^c]with the harp, [^d]With resounding music on the lyre. 







###### 4 



For You, LORD, have made me joyful by [^e]what You have done, I will sing for joy over the works of Your hands. 







###### 5 



How great are Your works, LORD! Your [^f]thoughts are very deep. 







###### 6 



A stupid person has no knowledge, Nor does a foolish person understand this: 







###### 7 



When the wicked sprouted up like grass And all who did injustice flourished, It _was only_ that they might be destroyed forevermore. 







###### 8 



But You, LORD, are on high forever. 







###### 9 



For, behold, Your enemies, LORD, For, behold, Your enemies will perish; All who do injustice will be scattered. 







###### 10 



But You have exalted my horn like _that of_ the wild ox; I have [^g]been anointed with fresh oil. 







###### 11 



And my eye has looked at my enemies, My ears hear of the evildoers who rise up against me. 







###### 12 



The righteous person will [^h]flourish like the palm tree, He will grow like a cedar in Lebanon. 







###### 13 



Planted in the house of the LORD, They will flourish in the courtyards of our God. 







###### 14 



They will still [^i]yield fruit in advanced age; They will be [^j]full of sap and very green, 







###### 15 



To [^k]declare that the LORD is just; _He is_ my rock, and there is no malice in Him. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 92:2 Lit _nights_ [^b]: Psalm 92:3 Lit _Upon_ [^c]: Psalm 92:3 Lit _Upon_ [^d]: Psalm 92:3 Lit _Upon_ [^e]: Psalm 92:4 Lit _Your working_ [^f]: Psalm 92:5 Or _purposes_ [^g]: Psalm 92:10 Or _become moist_ [^h]: Psalm 92:12 Lit _sprout_ [^i]: Psalm 92:14 Or _thrive in_ [^j]: Psalm 92:14 Lit _fat and_ [^k]: Psalm 92:15 Or _show forth_
