---
Aliases: [Psalms 99]
previous: ['Ps 98']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 100']
---
# Psalms 99

***








###### 1 



The LORD reigns, [^a]the peoples tremble! He sits _enthroned above_ the cherubim, [^b]the earth quakes! 







###### 2 



The LORD [^c]is great in Zion, And He is exalted above all the peoples. 







###### 3 



May they praise Your great and awesome name; Holy is [^d]He. 







###### 4 



The [^e]strength of the King loves [^f]justice; You have established [^g]order; You have executed [^h]justice and righteousness in Jacob. 







###### 5 



[^i]Exalt the LORD our God And worship at His footstool; Holy is He. 







###### 6 



Moses and Aaron were among His priests, And Samuel was among those who called on His name; They called upon the LORD and He answered them. 







###### 7 



He spoke to them in the pillar of cloud; They kept His testimonies And the statute that He gave them. 







###### 8 



LORD our God, You answered them; You were a forgiving God to them, And _yet_ an avenger of their _evil_ deeds. 







###### 9 



Exalt the LORD our God And worship at His holy hill, For the LORD our God is holy. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 99:1 Or _let the_ [^b]: Psalm 99:1 Or _let the...quake_ [^c]: Psalm 99:2 Or _in Zion is great_ [^d]: Psalm 99:3 Or _it_ [^e]: Psalm 99:4 Or _You have established in equity the strength of the King who loves justice_ [^f]: Psalm 99:4 Or _judgment_ [^g]: Psalm 99:4 Or _uprightness_ [^h]: Psalm 99:4 Or _judgment_ [^i]: Psalm 99:5 The verb is plural
