---
Aliases: [Psalms 95]
previous: ['Ps 94']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 96']
---
# Psalms 95

***








###### 1 



Come, let's sing for joy to the LORD, Let's shout joyfully to the rock of our salvation. 







###### 2 



Let's come before His presence with a song of thanksgiving, Let's shout joyfully to Him in songs _with instruments_. 







###### 3 



For the LORD is a great God And a great King above all gods, 







###### 4 



In whose hand are the depths of the earth, The peaks of the mountains are also His. 







###### 5 



[^a]The sea is His, for it was He who made it, And His hands formed the dry land. 







###### 6 



Come, let's worship and bow down, Let's kneel before the LORD our Maker. 







###### 7 



For He is our God, And we are the people of His [^b]pasture and the sheep of His hand. Today, [^c]if you will hear His voice, 







###### 8 



Do not harden your hearts as at [^d]Meribah, As on the day of [^e]Massah in the wilderness, 







###### 9 



"When your fathers put Me to the test, They tested Me, though they had seen My work. 







###### 10 



For forty years I was disgusted with _that_ generation, And said they are a people who err in their heart, And they do not know My ways. 







###### 11 



Therefore I swore in My anger, They certainly shall not enter My rest." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 95:5 Lit _Who has the sea_ [^b]: Psalm 95:7 Lit _pasturing_ [^c]: Psalm 95:7 Or _O that you would obey_ [^d]: Psalm 95:8 Or _place of strife_ [^e]: Psalm 95:8 Or _temptation_
