---
Aliases: [Psalms 97]
previous: ['Ps 96']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 98']
---
# Psalms 97

***








###### 1 



The LORD [^a]reigns, may the earth rejoice; May the many [^b]islands be joyful. 







###### 2 



Clouds and thick darkness surround Him; Righteousness and justice are the foundation of His throne. 







###### 3 



Fire goes before Him And burns up His enemies all around. 







###### 4 



His lightning lit up the world; The earth saw _it_ and trembled. 







###### 5 



The mountains melted like wax at the presence of the LORD, At the presence of the Lord of the whole earth. 







###### 6 



The heavens declare His righteousness, And all the peoples have seen His glory. 







###### 7 



May all those be ashamed who serve carved images, Who boast in idols; [^c]Worship Him, all you [^d]gods. 







###### 8 



Zion [^e]heard _this_ and was joyful, And the daughters of Judah have rejoiced Because of Your judgments, LORD. 







###### 9 



For You are the LORD Most High over all the earth; You are exalted far above all [^f]gods. 







###### 10 



Hate evil, you who love the LORD, Who watches over the souls of His godly ones; He saves them from the hand of the wicked. 







###### 11 



Light is sown _like seed_ for the righteous, And gladness for the upright in heart. 







###### 12 



Be joyful in the LORD, you righteous ones, And praise [^g]the mention of His holy name. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 97:1 Or _has assumed Kingship_ [^b]: Psalm 97:1 Or _coastlands_ [^c]: Psalm 97:7 Or _All the gods have worshiped Him_ [^d]: Psalm 97:7 Or _supernatural powers_ [^e]: Psalm 97:8 Or possibly _hears and is glad_ [^f]: Psalm 97:9 Or _supernatural powers_ [^g]: Psalm 97:12 Lit _for the memory of His holiness_
