---
Aliases: [Psalms 96]
previous: ['Ps 95']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 97']
---
# Psalms 96

***








###### 1 



Sing to the LORD a new song; Sing to the LORD, all the earth. 







###### 2 



Sing to the LORD, bless His name; Proclaim the good news of His salvation from day to day. 







###### 3 



Tell of His glory among the nations, His wonderful deeds among all the peoples. 







###### 4 



For great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised; He is to be feared above all gods. 







###### 5 



For all the gods of the peoples are [^a]idols, But the LORD made the heavens. 







###### 6 



Splendor and majesty are before Him, Strength and beauty are in His sanctuary. 







###### 7 



[^b]Ascribe to the LORD, you families of the peoples, [^c]Ascribe to the LORD glory and strength. 







###### 8 



[^d]Ascribe to the LORD the glory of His name; Bring an [^e]offering and come into His courtyards. 







###### 9 



Worship the LORD in [^f]holy attire; Tremble before Him, all the earth. 







###### 10 



Say among the nations, "The LORD reigns; Indeed, the world is _firmly_ established, it will not be moved; He will judge the peoples fairly." 







###### 11 



May the heavens be joyful, and may the earth rejoice; May the sea [^g]roar, and [^h]all it contains; 







###### 12 



May the field be jubilant, and all that is in it. Then all the trees of the forest will sing for joy 







###### 13 



Before the LORD, for He is coming, For He is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the world in righteousness, And the peoples in His faithfulness. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 96:5 Or _non-existent things_ [^b]: Psalm 96:7 Lit _Give_ [^c]: Psalm 96:7 Lit _Give_ [^d]: Psalm 96:8 Lit _Give_ [^e]: Psalm 96:8 Or _meal offering_ [^f]: Psalm 96:9 Or _the splendor of holiness_ [^g]: Psalm 96:11 Or _thunder_ [^h]: Psalm 96:11 Lit _its fullness_
