---
Aliases: [Psalms 90]
previous: ['Ps 89']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 91']
---
# Psalms 90

***








###### 1 



Lord, You have been our [^b]dwelling place in all generations. 







###### 2 



Before the mountains were born [^c]Or You gave birth to the earth and the world, Even from everlasting to everlasting, You are God. 







###### 3 



You turn mortals back into dust And say, "Return, you sons of mankind." 







###### 4 



For a thousand years in Your sight Are like yesterday when it passes by, [^d]Or _like_ a watch in the night. 







###### 5 



You have [^e]swept them away like a flood, they [^f]fall asleep; In the morning they are like grass that [^g]sprouts anew. 







###### 6 



In the morning it flourishes and [^h]sprouts anew; Toward evening it wilts and withers away. 







###### 7 



For we have been consumed by Your anger, And we have been terrified by Your wrath. 







###### 8 



You have placed our guilty deeds before You, Our hidden _sins_ in the light of Your presence. 







###### 9 



For all our days have dwindled away in Your fury; We have finished our years like a [^i]sigh. 







###### 10 



As for the days of our [^j]life, [^k]they contain seventy years, Or if due to strength, eighty years, Yet their pride is _only_ trouble and tragedy; For it quickly passes, and we disappear. 







###### 11 



Who [^l]understands the power of Your anger And Your fury, according to the fear [^m]that is due You? 







###### 12 



So teach _us_ to number our days, That we may [^n]present _to You_ a heart of wisdom. 







###### 13 



Do return, LORD; how long _will it be_? And [^o]be sorry for Your servants. 







###### 14 



Satisfy us in the morning with Your graciousness, That we may sing for joy and rejoice all our days. 







###### 15 



Make us glad [^p]according to the days You have afflicted us, _And_ the years we have seen [^q]evil. 







###### 16 



Let Your work appear to Your servants And Your majesty [^r]to their children. 







###### 17 



May the kindness of the Lord our God be upon us; And [^s]confirm for us the work of our hands; Yes, [^t]confirm the work of our hands. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 90 Title Deut 33:1 [^b]: Psalm 90:1 Or _hiding place_; some ancient mss _place of refuge_ [^c]: Psalm 90:2 Or _And_ [^d]: Psalm 90:4 Or _And_ [^e]: Psalm 90:5 Or _flooded_ [^f]: Psalm 90:5 Lit _become asleep_ [^g]: Psalm 90:5 Or _passes away_ [^h]: Psalm 90:6 Or _passes away_ [^i]: Psalm 90:9 Or _whisper_ [^j]: Psalm 90:10 Lit _years_ [^k]: Psalm 90:10 Lit _in them are_ [^l]: Psalm 90:11 Or _knows_ [^m]: Psalm 90:11 Lit _of You_ [^n]: Psalm 90:12 Lit _bring in_ [^o]: Psalm 90:13 Or _repent in regard to_ [^p]: Psalm 90:15 Or _as many days as_ [^q]: Psalm 90:15 Or _trouble_ [^r]: Psalm 90:16 Or _upon_ [^s]: Psalm 90:17 Or _give permanence to_ [^t]: Psalm 90:17 Or _give permanence to_
