---
Aliases: [Psalms 98]
previous: ['Ps 97']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 99']
---
# Psalms 98

***








###### 1 



Sing a new song to the LORD, For He has done wonderful things, His right hand and His holy arm have [^a]gained the victory for Him. 







###### 2 



The LORD has made His salvation known; He has revealed His righteousness in the sight of the nations. 







###### 3 



He has remembered His graciousness and His faithfulness to the house of Israel; All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. 







###### 4 



Shout joyfully to the LORD, all the earth; Be cheerful and sing for joy and sing praises. 







###### 5 



Sing praises to the LORD with the lyre, With the lyre and the [^b]sound of melody. 







###### 6 



With trumpets and the sound of the horn Shout joyfully before the King, the LORD. 







###### 7 



May the sea roar and [^c]all it contains, The world and those who dwell in it. 







###### 8 



May the rivers clap their hands, May the mountains sing together for joy 







###### 9 



Before the LORD, for He is coming to judge the earth; He will judge the world with righteousness And the peoples with fairness. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 98:1 Or _accomplished salvation_ [^b]: Psalm 98:5 Or _voice of song_ (accompanied by music) [^c]: Psalm 98:7 Lit _its fullness_
