---
Aliases: [Psalms 91]
previous: ['Ps 90']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 92']
---
# Psalms 91

***








###### 1 



One who dwells in the shelter of the Most High Will lodge in the shadow of the Almighty. 







###### 2 



I will say to the LORD, "My refuge and my fortress, My God, in whom I trust!" 







###### 3 



For it is He who rescues you from the net of the trapper And from the deadly plague. 







###### 4 



He will cover you with His pinions, And under His wings you may take refuge; His faithfulness is a shield and wall. 







###### 5 



You will not be afraid of the terror by night, Or of the arrow that flies by day; 







###### 6 



Of the plague that [^a]stalks in darkness, Or of the destruction that devastates at noon. 







###### 7 



A thousand may fall at your side And ten thousand at your right hand, _But_ it shall not approach you. 







###### 8 



You will only look on with your eyes And see the retaliation _against_ the wicked. 







###### 9 



[^b]For you have made the LORD, my refuge, The Most High, your dwelling place. 







###### 10 



No evil will happen to you, Nor will any plague come near your [^c]tent. 







###### 11 



For He will give His angels orders concerning you, To protect you in all your ways. 







###### 12 



On their hands they will lift you up, So that you do not strike your foot against a stone. 







###### 13 



You will walk upon the lion and cobra, You will trample the young lion and the [^d]serpent. 







###### 14 



"Because he has loved Me, I will save him; I will set him _securely_ on high, because he has known My name. 







###### 15 



He will call upon Me, and I will answer him; I will be with him in [^e]trouble; I will rescue him and honor him. 







###### 16 



I will satisfy him with [^f]a long life, And [^g]show him My salvation." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 91:6 Or _walks_ [^b]: Psalm 91:9 Or _For You, O _Lord_, are my Refuge; You have made the Most High your dwelling place_ [^c]: Psalm 91:10 Or _dwelling_ [^d]: Psalm 91:13 Or _dragon_ [^e]: Psalm 91:15 Or _distress_ [^f]: Psalm 91:16 Lit _length of days_ [^g]: Psalm 91:16 Or _cause him to feast his eyes on_
