---
Aliases: [Psalms 94]
previous: ['Ps 93']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 95']
---
# Psalms 94

***








###### 1 



LORD, God of [^a]vengeance, God of [^b]vengeance, [^c]shine forth! 







###### 2 



Rise up, Judge of the earth, Pay back retribution to the proud. 







###### 3 



How long, LORD, shall the wicked-- How long shall the wicked triumph? 







###### 4 



They pour out _words_, they speak arrogantly; All who do injustice boast. 







###### 5 



They crush Your people, LORD, And afflict Your inheritance. 







###### 6 



They kill the widow and the stranger And murder the orphans. 







###### 7 



They have said, "[^d]The LORD does not see, Nor does the God of Jacob perceive." 







###### 8 



Pay attention, you stupid ones among the people; And when will you understand, foolish ones? 







###### 9 



He who planted the ear, [^e]does He not hear? Or He who formed the eye, [^f]does He not see? 







###### 10 



He who [^g]disciplines the nations, will He not rebuke, He who teaches mankind knowledge? 







###### 11 



The LORD knows human thoughts, [^h]That they are _mere_ breath. 







###### 12 



Blessed is the man whom You discipline, [^i]LORD, And whom You teach from Your Law, 







###### 13 



So that You may grant him relief from the days of adversity, Until a pit is dug for the wicked. 







###### 14 



For the LORD will not abandon His people, Nor will He abandon His inheritance. 







###### 15 



For [^j]judgment [^k]will again be righteous, And all the upright in heart [^l]will follow it. 







###### 16 



Who will stand up for me against evildoers? Who will take his stand for me against those who do injustice? 







###### 17 



If the LORD had not been my help, My soul would soon have dwelt _in the land of_ silence. 







###### 18 



If I should say, "My foot has slipped," Your faithfulness, LORD, will support me. 







###### 19 



When my anxious thoughts [^m]multiply within me, Your comfort delights my soul. 







###### 20 



Can a [^n]throne of destruction be allied with You, One which devises [^o]mischief by decree? 







###### 21 



They band themselves together against the [^p]life of the righteous And condemn [^q]the innocent to death. 







###### 22 



But the LORD has been my refuge, And my God the rock of my refuge. 







###### 23 



He has brought back their injustice upon them, And He will [^r]destroy them in their evil; The LORD our God will [^s]destroy them. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 94:1 Or _avenging acts_ [^b]: Psalm 94:1 Or _avenging acts_ [^c]: Psalm 94:1 Or _has shone forth_ [^d]: Psalm 94:7 Heb _Yah_ [^e]: Psalm 94:9 Or _can_ [^f]: Psalm 94:9 Or _can_ [^g]: Psalm 94:10 Or _instructs_ [^h]: Psalm 94:11 Or _For_ [^i]: Psalm 94:12 Heb _Yah_ [^j]: Psalm 94:15 I.e., administration of justice [^k]: Psalm 94:15 Lit _will return to righteousness_ [^l]: Psalm 94:15 Lit _will be after it_ [^m]: Psalm 94:19 Or _are many_ [^n]: Psalm 94:20 Or _tribunal_ [^o]: Psalm 94:20 Or _trouble, misfortune_ [^p]: Psalm 94:21 Or _soul_ [^q]: Psalm 94:21 Lit _innocent blood_ [^r]: Psalm 94:23 Or _silence_ [^s]: Psalm 94:23 Or _silence_
