---
Aliases: [1 Kings 19]
previous: ['1 Kgs 18']
up: ['1 Kings']
next: ['1 Kgs 20']
---
# 1 Kings 19

***


###### 1 
And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, also how he had executed all the prophets with the sword. 

###### 2 
Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah, saying, "So let the gods do _to me,_ and more also, if I do not make your life as the life of one of them by tomorrow about this time." 

###### 3 
And when he saw _that,_ he arose and ran for his life, and went to Beersheba, which _belongs_ to Judah, and left his servant there. 

###### 4 
But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness, and came and sat down under a broom tree. And he prayed that he might die, and said, "It is enough! Now, Lord, take my life, for I _am_ no better than my fathers!" 

###### 5 
Then as he lay and slept under a broom tree, suddenly an angel touched him, and said to him, "Arise _and_ eat." 

###### 6 
Then he looked, and there by his head _was_ a cake baked on coals, and a jar of water. So he ate and drank, and lay down again. 

###### 7 
And the angel of the Lord came back the second time, and touched him, and said, "Arise _and_ eat, because the journey _is_ too great for you." 

###### 8 
So he arose, and ate and drank; and he went in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights as far as Horeb, the mountain of God. 

###### 9 
And there he went into a cave, and spent the night in that place; and behold, the word of the Lord _came_ to him, and He said to him, "What are you doing here, Elijah?" 

###### 10 
So he said, "I have been very zealous for the Lord God of hosts; for the children of Israel have forsaken Your covenant, torn down Your altars, and killed Your prophets with the sword. I alone am left; and they seek to take my life." 

## God's Revelation to Elijah 

###### 11 
Then He said, "Go out, and stand on the mountain before the Lord." And behold, the Lord passed by, and a great and strong wind tore into the mountains and broke the rocks in pieces before the Lord, _but_ the Lord _was_ not in the wind; and after the wind an earthquake, _but_ the Lord _was_ not in the earthquake; 

###### 12 
and after the earthquake a fire, _but_ the Lord _was_ not in the fire; and after the fire a still small voice. 

###### 13 
So it was, when Elijah heard _it,_ that he wrapped his face in his mantle and went out and stood in the entrance of the cave. Suddenly a voice _came_ to him, and said, "What are you doing here, Elijah?" 

###### 14 
And he said, "I have been very zealous for the Lord God of hosts; because the children of Israel have forsaken Your covenant, torn down Your altars, and killed Your prophets with the sword. I alone am left; and they seek to take my life." 

###### 15 
Then the Lord said to him: "Go, return on your way to the Wilderness of Damascus; and when you arrive, anoint Hazael _as_ king over Syria. 

###### 16 
Also you shall anoint Jehu the son of Nimshi _as_ king over Israel. And Elisha the son of Shaphat of Abel Meholah you shall anoint _as_ prophet in your place. 

###### 17 
It shall be _that_ whoever escapes the sword of Hazael, Jehu will kill; and whoever escapes the sword of Jehu, Elisha will kill. 

###### 18 
Yet I have reserved seven thousand in Israel, all whose knees have not bowed to Baal, and every mouth that has not kissed him." 

## Elisha Follows Elijah 

###### 19 
So he departed from there, and found Elisha the son of Shaphat, who _was_ plowing _with_ twelve yoke _of oxen_ before him, and he was with the twelfth. Then Elijah passed by him and threw his mantle on him. 

###### 20 
And he left the oxen and ran after Elijah, and said, "Please let me kiss my father and my mother, and _then_ I will follow you." And he said to him, "Go back again, for what have I done to you?" 

###### 21 
So _Elisha_ turned back from him, and took a yoke of oxen and slaughtered them and boiled their flesh, using the oxen's equipment, and gave it to the people, and they ate. Then he arose and followed Elijah, and became his servant.
