---
Aliases: [Psalms 103]
previous: ['Ps 102']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 104']
---
# Psalms 103

***




















###### 1 









Praise the LORD, my soul; all my inmost being, praise his holy name. 



















###### 2 









Praise the LORD, my soul, and forget not all his benefits-- 



















###### 3 









who forgives all your sins and heals all your diseases, 



















###### 4 









who redeems your life from the pit and crowns you with love and compassion, 



















###### 5 









who satisfies your desires with good things so that your youth is renewed like the eagle's. 



















###### 6 









The LORD works righteousness and justice for all the oppressed. 



















###### 7 









He made known his ways to Moses, his deeds to the people of Israel: 



















###### 8 









The LORD is compassionate and gracious, slow to anger, abounding in love. 



















###### 9 









He will not always accuse, nor will he harbor his anger forever; 



















###### 10 









he does not treat us as our sins deserve or repay us according to our iniquities. 



















###### 11 









For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his love for those who fear him; 



















###### 12 









as far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. 



















###### 13 









As a father has compassion on his children, so the LORD has compassion on those who fear him; 



















###### 14 









for he knows how we are formed, he remembers that we are dust. 



















###### 15 









The life of mortals is like grass, they flourish like a flower of the field; 



















###### 16 









the wind blows over it and it is gone, and its place remembers it no more. 



















###### 17 









But from everlasting to everlasting the LORD's love is with those who fear him, and his righteousness with their children's children-- 



















###### 18 









with those who keep his covenant and remember to obey his precepts. 



















###### 19 









The LORD has established his throne in heaven, and his kingdom rules over all. 



















###### 20 









Praise the LORD, you his angels, you mighty ones who do his bidding, who obey his word. 



















###### 21 









Praise the LORD, all his heavenly hosts, you his servants who do his will. 



















###### 22 









Praise the LORD, all his works everywhere in his dominion. Praise the LORD, my soul. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
