---
Aliases: [Psalms 104]
previous: ['Ps 103']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 105']
---
# Psalms 104

***




















###### 1 









Praise the LORD, my soul. LORD my God, you are very great; you are clothed with splendor and majesty. 



















###### 2 









The LORD wraps himself in light as with a garment; he stretches out the heavens like a tent 



















###### 3 









and lays the beams of his upper chambers on their waters. He makes the clouds his chariot and rides on the wings of the wind. 



















###### 4 









He makes winds his messengers,[^a] flames of fire his servants. 



















###### 5 









He set the earth on its foundations; it can never be moved. 



















###### 6 









You covered it with the watery depths as with a garment; the waters stood above the mountains. 



















###### 7 









But at your rebuke the waters fled, at the sound of your thunder they took to flight; 



















###### 8 









they flowed over the mountains, they went down into the valleys, to the place you assigned for them. 



















###### 9 









You set a boundary they cannot cross; never again will they cover the earth. 



















###### 10 









He makes springs pour water into the ravines; it flows between the mountains. 



















###### 11 









They give water to all the beasts of the field; the wild donkeys quench their thirst. 



















###### 12 









The birds of the sky nest by the waters; they sing among the branches. 



















###### 13 









He waters the mountains from his upper chambers; the land is satisfied by the fruit of his work. 



















###### 14 









He makes grass grow for the cattle, and plants for people to cultivate-- bringing forth food from the earth: 



















###### 15 









wine that gladdens human hearts, oil to make their faces shine, and bread that sustains their hearts. 



















###### 16 









The trees of the LORD are well watered, the cedars of Lebanon that he planted. 



















###### 17 









There the birds make their nests; the stork has its home in the junipers. 



















###### 18 









The high mountains belong to the wild goats; the crags are a refuge for the hyrax. 



















###### 19 









He made the moon to mark the seasons, and the sun knows when to go down. 



















###### 20 









You bring darkness, it becomes night, and all the beasts of the forest prowl. 



















###### 21 









The lions roar for their prey and seek their food from God. 



















###### 22 









The sun rises, and they steal away; they return and lie down in their dens. 



















###### 23 









Then people go out to their work, to their labor until evening. 



















###### 24 









How many are your works, LORD! In wisdom you made them all; the earth is full of your creatures. 



















###### 25 









There is the sea, vast and spacious, teeming with creatures beyond number-- living things both large and small. 



















###### 26 









There the ships go to and fro, and Leviathan, which you formed to frolic there. 



















###### 27 









All creatures look to you to give them their food at the proper time. 



















###### 28 









When you give it to them, they gather it up; when you open your hand, they are satisfied with good things. 



















###### 29 









When you hide your face, they are terrified; when you take away their breath, they die and return to the dust. 



















###### 30 









When you send your Spirit, they are created, and you renew the face of the ground. 



















###### 31 









May the glory of the LORD endure forever; may the LORD rejoice in his works-- 



















###### 32 









he who looks at the earth, and it trembles, who touches the mountains, and they smoke. 



















###### 33 









I will sing to the LORD all my life; I will sing praise to my God as long as I live. 



















###### 34 









May my meditation be pleasing to him, as I rejoice in the LORD. 



















###### 35 









But may sinners vanish from the earth and the wicked be no more. Praise the LORD, my soul. Praise the LORD.[^b] NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 104:4 Or _angels_ [^b]: Psalm 104:35 Hebrew _Hallelu Yah_; in the Septuagint this line stands at the beginning of Psalm 105.
