---
Aliases: [Psalms 116]
previous: ['Ps 115']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 117']
---
# Psalms 116

***




















###### 1 









I love the LORD, for he heard my voice; he heard my cry for mercy. 



















###### 2 









Because he turned his ear to me, I will call on him as long as I live. 



















###### 3 









The cords of death entangled me, the anguish of the grave came over me; I was overcome by distress and sorrow. 



















###### 4 









Then I called on the name of the LORD: "LORD, save me!" 



















###### 5 









The LORD is gracious and righteous; our God is full of compassion. 



















###### 6 









The LORD protects the unwary; when I was brought low, he saved me. 



















###### 7 









Return to your rest, my soul, for the LORD has been good to you. 



















###### 8 









For you, LORD, have delivered me from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from stumbling, 



















###### 9 









that I may walk before the LORD in the land of the living. 



















###### 10 









I trusted in the LORD when I said, "I am greatly afflicted"; 



















###### 11 









in my alarm I said, "Everyone is a liar." 



















###### 12 









What shall I return to the LORD for all his goodness to me? 



















###### 13 









I will lift up the cup of salvation and call on the name of the LORD. 



















###### 14 









I will fulfill my vows to the LORD in the presence of all his people. 



















###### 15 









Precious in the sight of the LORD is the death of his faithful servants. 



















###### 16 









Truly I am your servant, LORD; I serve you just as my mother did; you have freed me from my chains. 



















###### 17 









I will sacrifice a thank offering to you and call on the name of the LORD. 



















###### 18 









I will fulfill my vows to the LORD in the presence of all his people, 



















###### 19 









in the courts of the house of the LORD-- in your midst, Jerusalem. Praise the LORD.[^a] NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 116:19 Hebrew _Hallelu Yah_
