---
Aliases: [Psalms 106]
previous: ['Ps 105']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 107']
---
# Psalms 106

***




















###### 1 









Praise the LORD.[^a] Give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; his love endures forever. 



















###### 2 









Who can proclaim the mighty acts of the LORD or fully declare his praise? 



















###### 3 









Blessed are those who act justly, who always do what is right. 



















###### 4 









Remember me, LORD, when you show favor to your people, come to my aid when you save them, 



















###### 5 









that I may enjoy the prosperity of your chosen ones, that I may share in the joy of your nation and join your inheritance in giving praise. 



















###### 6 









We have sinned, even as our ancestors did; we have done wrong and acted wickedly. 



















###### 7 









When our ancestors were in Egypt, they gave no thought to your miracles; they did not remember your many kindnesses, and they rebelled by the sea, the Red Sea.[^b] 



















###### 8 









Yet he saved them for his name's sake, to make his mighty power known. 



















###### 9 









He rebuked the Red Sea, and it dried up; he led them through the depths as through a desert. 



















###### 10 









He saved them from the hand of the foe; from the hand of the enemy he redeemed them. 



















###### 11 









The waters covered their adversaries; not one of them survived. 



















###### 12 









Then they believed his promises and sang his praise. 



















###### 13 









But they soon forgot what he had done and did not wait for his plan to unfold. 



















###### 14 









In the desert they gave in to their craving; in the wilderness they put God to the test. 



















###### 15 









So he gave them what they asked for, but sent a wasting disease among them. 



















###### 16 









In the camp they grew envious of Moses and of Aaron, who was consecrated to the LORD. 



















###### 17 









The earth opened up and swallowed Dathan; it buried the company of Abiram. 



















###### 18 









Fire blazed among their followers; a flame consumed the wicked. 



















###### 19 









At Horeb they made a calf and worshiped an idol cast from metal. 



















###### 20 









They exchanged their glorious God for an image of a bull, which eats grass. 



















###### 21 









They forgot the God who saved them, who had done great things in Egypt, 



















###### 22 









miracles in the land of Ham and awesome deeds by the Red Sea. 



















###### 23 









So he said he would destroy them-- had not Moses, his chosen one, stood in the breach before him to keep his wrath from destroying them. 



















###### 24 









Then they despised the pleasant land; they did not believe his promise. 



















###### 25 









They grumbled in their tents and did not obey the LORD. 



















###### 26 









So he swore to them with uplifted hand that he would make them fall in the wilderness, 



















###### 27 









make their descendants fall among the nations and scatter them throughout the lands. 



















###### 28 









They yoked themselves to the Baal of Peor and ate sacrifices offered to lifeless gods; 



















###### 29 









they aroused the LORD's anger by their wicked deeds, and a plague broke out among them. 



















###### 30 









But Phinehas stood up and intervened, and the plague was checked. 



















###### 31 









This was credited to him as righteousness for endless generations to come. 



















###### 32 









By the waters of Meribah they angered the LORD, and trouble came to Moses because of them; 



















###### 33 









for they rebelled against the Spirit of God, and rash words came from Moses' lips.[^c] 



















###### 34 









They did not destroy the peoples as the LORD had commanded them, 



















###### 35 









but they mingled with the nations and adopted their customs. 



















###### 36 









They worshiped their idols, which became a snare to them. 



















###### 37 









They sacrificed their sons and their daughters to false gods. 



















###### 38 









They shed innocent blood, the blood of their sons and daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan, and the land was desecrated by their blood. 



















###### 39 









They defiled themselves by what they did; by their deeds they prostituted themselves. 



















###### 40 









Therefore the LORD was angry with his people and abhorred his inheritance. 



















###### 41 









He gave them into the hands of the nations, and their foes ruled over them. 



















###### 42 









Their enemies oppressed them and subjected them to their power. 



















###### 43 









Many times he delivered them, but they were bent on rebellion and they wasted away in their sin. 



















###### 44 









Yet he took note of their distress when he heard their cry; 



















###### 45 









for their sake he remembered his covenant and out of his great love he relented. 



















###### 46 









He caused all who held them captive to show them mercy. 



















###### 47 









Save us, LORD our God, and gather us from the nations, that we may give thanks to your holy name and glory in your praise. 



















###### 48 









Praise be to the LORD, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting. Let all the people say, "Amen!" Praise the LORD. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 106:1 Hebrew _Hallelu Yah_; also in verse 48 [^b]: Psalm 106:7 Or _the Sea of Reeds_; also in verses 9 and 22 [^c]: Psalm 106:33 Or _against his spirit, / and rash words came from his lips_
