---
Aliases: [Psalms 147]
previous: ['Ps 146']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 148']
---
# Psalms 147

***




















###### 1 









Praise the LORD.[^a] How good it is to sing praises to our God, how pleasant and fitting to praise him! 



















###### 2 









The LORD builds up Jerusalem; he gathers the exiles of Israel. 



















###### 3 









He heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds. 



















###### 4 









He determines the number of the stars and calls them each by name. 



















###### 5 









Great is our Lord and mighty in power; his understanding has no limit. 



















###### 6 









The LORD sustains the humble but casts the wicked to the ground. 



















###### 7 









Sing to the LORD with grateful praise; make music to our God on the harp. 



















###### 8 









He covers the sky with clouds; he supplies the earth with rain and makes grass grow on the hills. 



















###### 9 









He provides food for the cattle and for the young ravens when they call. 



















###### 10 









His pleasure is not in the strength of the horse, nor his delight in the legs of the warrior; 



















###### 11 









the LORD delights in those who fear him, who put their hope in his unfailing love. 



















###### 12 









Extol the LORD, Jerusalem; praise your God, Zion. 



















###### 13 









He strengthens the bars of your gates and blesses your people within you. 



















###### 14 









He grants peace to your borders and satisfies you with the finest of wheat. 



















###### 15 









He sends his command to the earth; his word runs swiftly. 



















###### 16 









He spreads the snow like wool and scatters the frost like ashes. 



















###### 17 









He hurls down his hail like pebbles. Who can withstand his icy blast? 



















###### 18 









He sends his word and melts them; he stirs up his breezes, and the waters flow. 



















###### 19 









He has revealed his word to Jacob, his laws and decrees to Israel. 



















###### 20 









He has done this for no other nation; they do not know his laws.[^b] Praise the LORD. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 147:1 Hebrew _Hallelu Yah_; also in verse 20 [^b]: Psalm 147:20 Masoretic Text; Dead Sea Scrolls and Septuagint _nation; / he has not made his laws known to them_
