---
Aliases: [Psalms 142]
previous: ['Ps 141']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 143']
---
# Psalms 142

***




















###### 1 









I cry aloud to the LORD; I lift up my voice to the LORD for mercy. 



















###### 2 









I pour out before him my complaint; before him I tell my trouble. 



















###### 3 









When my spirit grows faint within me, it is you who watch over my way. In the path where I walk people have hidden a snare for me. 



















###### 4 









Look and see, there is no one at my right hand; no one is concerned for me. I have no refuge; no one cares for my life. 



















###### 5 









I cry to you, LORD; I say, "You are my refuge, my portion in the land of the living." 



















###### 6 









Listen to my cry, for I am in desperate need; rescue me from those who pursue me, for they are too strong for me. 



















###### 7 









Set me free from my prison, that I may praise your name. Then the righteous will gather about me because of your goodness to me. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 142:1 In Hebrew texts 142:1-7 is numbered 142:2-8. [^b]: Psalm 142:1 Title: Probably a literary or musical term
