---
Aliases: [Psalms 10]
previous: ['Ps 9']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 11']
---
# Psalms 10

***




















###### 1 









Why, LORD, do you stand far off? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble? 



















###### 2 









In his arrogance the wicked man hunts down the weak, who are caught in the schemes he devises. 



















###### 3 









He boasts about the cravings of his heart; he blesses the greedy and reviles the LORD. 



















###### 4 









In his pride the wicked man does not seek him; in all his thoughts there is no room for God. 



















###### 5 









His ways are always prosperous; your laws are rejected by[^b] him; he sneers at all his enemies. 



















###### 6 









He says to himself, "Nothing will ever shake me." He swears, "No one will ever do me harm." 



















###### 7 









His mouth is full of lies and threats; trouble and evil are under his tongue. 



















###### 8 









He lies in wait near the villages; from ambush he murders the innocent. His eyes watch in secret for his victims; 



















###### 9 









like a lion in cover he lies in wait. He lies in wait to catch the helpless; he catches the helpless and drags them off in his net. 



















###### 10 









His victims are crushed, they collapse; they fall under his strength. 



















###### 11 









He says to himself, "God will never notice; he covers his face and never sees." 



















###### 12 









Arise, LORD! Lift up your hand, O God. Do not forget the helpless. 



















###### 13 









Why does the wicked man revile God? Why does he say to himself, "He won't call me to account"? 



















###### 14 









But you, God, see the trouble of the afflicted; you consider their grief and take it in hand. The victims commit themselves to you; you are the helper of the fatherless. 



















###### 15 









Break the arm of the wicked man; call the evildoer to account for his wickedness that would not otherwise be found out. 



















###### 16 









The LORD is King for ever and ever; the nations will perish from his land. 



















###### 17 









You, LORD, hear the desire of the afflicted; you encourage them, and you listen to their cry, 



















###### 18 









defending the fatherless and the oppressed, so that mere earthly mortals will never again strike terror. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 10:1 Psalms 9 and 10 may originally have been a single acrostic poem in which alternating lines began with the successive letters of the Hebrew alphabet. In the Septuagint they constitute one psalm. [^b]: Psalm 10:5 See Septuagint; Hebrew _/ they are haughty, and your laws are far from_
