---
Aliases: [Psalms 146]
previous: ['Ps 145']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 147']
---
# Psalms 146

***




















###### 1 









Praise the LORD.[^a] Praise the LORD, my soul. 



















###### 2 









I will praise the LORD all my life; I will sing praise to my God as long as I live. 



















###### 3 









Do not put your trust in princes, in human beings, who cannot save. 



















###### 4 









When their spirit departs, they return to the ground; on that very day their plans come to nothing. 



















###### 5 









Blessed are those whose help is the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the LORD their God. 



















###### 6 









He is the Maker of heaven and earth, the sea, and everything in them-- he remains faithful forever. 



















###### 7 









He upholds the cause of the oppressed and gives food to the hungry. The LORD sets prisoners free, 



















###### 8 









the LORD gives sight to the blind, the LORD lifts up those who are bowed down, the LORD loves the righteous. 



















###### 9 









The LORD watches over the foreigner and sustains the fatherless and the widow, but he frustrates the ways of the wicked. 



















###### 10 









The LORD reigns forever, your God, O Zion, for all generations. Praise the LORD. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 146:1 Hebrew _Hallelu Yah_; also in verse 10
