---
Aliases: [Psalms 126]
previous: ['Ps 125']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 127']
---
# Psalms 126

***




















###### 1 









When the LORD restored the fortunes of[^a] Zion, we were like those who dreamed.[^b] 



















###### 2 









Our mouths were filled with laughter, our tongues with songs of joy. Then it was said among the nations, "The LORD has done great things for them." 



















###### 3 









The LORD has done great things for us, and we are filled with joy. 



















###### 4 









Restore our fortunes,[^c] LORD, like streams in the Negev. 



















###### 5 









Those who sow with tears will reap with songs of joy. 



















###### 6 









Those who go out weeping, carrying seed to sow, will return with songs of joy, carrying sheaves with them. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 126:1 Or _Lord brought back the captives to_ [^b]: Psalm 126:1 Or _those restored to health_ [^c]: Psalm 126:4 Or _Bring back our captives_
