---
Aliases: [Psalms 143]
previous: ['Ps 142']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 144']
---
# Psalms 143

***




















###### 1 









LORD, hear my prayer, listen to my cry for mercy; in your faithfulness and righteousness come to my relief. 



















###### 2 









Do not bring your servant into judgment, for no one living is righteous before you. 



















###### 3 









The enemy pursues me, he crushes me to the ground; he makes me dwell in the darkness like those long dead. 



















###### 4 









So my spirit grows faint within me; my heart within me is dismayed. 



















###### 5 









I remember the days of long ago; I meditate on all your works and consider what your hands have done. 



















###### 6 









I spread out my hands to you; I thirst for you like a parched land.[^a] 



















###### 7 









Answer me quickly, LORD; my spirit fails. Do not hide your face from me or I will be like those who go down to the pit. 



















###### 8 









Let the morning bring me word of your unfailing love, for I have put my trust in you. Show me the way I should go, for to you I entrust my life. 



















###### 9 









Rescue me from my enemies, LORD, for I hide myself in you. 



















###### 10 









Teach me to do your will, for you are my God; may your good Spirit lead me on level ground. 



















###### 11 









For your name's sake, LORD, preserve my life; in your righteousness, bring me out of trouble. 



















###### 12 









In your unfailing love, silence my enemies; destroy all my foes, for I am your servant. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 143:6 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here.
