---
Aliases: [Psalms 135]
previous: ['Ps 134']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 136']
---
# Psalms 135

***




















###### 1 









Praise the LORD.[^a] Praise the name of the LORD; praise him, you servants of the LORD, 



















###### 2 









you who minister in the house of the LORD, in the courts of the house of our God. 



















###### 3 









Praise the LORD, for the LORD is good; sing praise to his name, for that is pleasant. 



















###### 4 









For the LORD has chosen Jacob to be his own, Israel to be his treasured possession. 



















###### 5 









I know that the LORD is great, that our Lord is greater than all gods. 



















###### 6 









The LORD does whatever pleases him, in the heavens and on the earth, in the seas and all their depths. 



















###### 7 









He makes clouds rise from the ends of the earth; he sends lightning with the rain and brings out the wind from his storehouses. 



















###### 8 









He struck down the firstborn of Egypt, the firstborn of people and animals. 



















###### 9 









He sent his signs and wonders into your midst, Egypt, against Pharaoh and all his servants. 



















###### 10 









He struck down many nations and killed mighty kings-- 



















###### 11 









Sihon king of the Amorites, Og king of Bashan, and all the kings of Canaan-- 



















###### 12 









and he gave their land as an inheritance, an inheritance to his people Israel. 



















###### 13 









Your name, LORD, endures forever, your renown, LORD, through all generations. 



















###### 14 









For the LORD will vindicate his people and have compassion on his servants. 



















###### 15 









The idols of the nations are silver and gold, made by human hands. 



















###### 16 









They have mouths, but cannot speak, eyes, but cannot see. 



















###### 17 









They have ears, but cannot hear, nor is there breath in their mouths. 



















###### 18 









Those who make them will be like them, and so will all who trust in them. 



















###### 19 









All you Israelites, praise the LORD; house of Aaron, praise the LORD; 



















###### 20 









house of Levi, praise the LORD; you who fear him, praise the LORD. 



















###### 21 









Praise be to the LORD from Zion, to him who dwells in Jerusalem. Praise the LORD. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 135:1 Hebrew _Hallelu Yah_; also in verses 3 and 21
