---
Aliases: [Psalms 14]
previous: ['Ps 13']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 15']
---
# Psalms 14

***




















###### 1 









The fool[^a] says in his heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt, their deeds are vile; there is no one who does good. 



















###### 2 









The LORD looks down from heaven on all mankind to see if there are any who understand, any who seek God. 



















###### 3 









All have turned away, all have become corrupt; there is no one who does good, not even one. 



















###### 4 









Do all these evildoers know nothing? They devour my people as though eating bread; they never call on the LORD. 



















###### 5 









But there they are, overwhelmed with dread, for God is present in the company of the righteous. 



















###### 6 









You evildoers frustrate the plans of the poor, but the LORD is their refuge. 



















###### 7 









Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion! When the LORD restores his people, let Jacob rejoice and Israel be glad! NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 14:1 The Hebrew words rendered _fool_ in Psalms denote one who is morally deficient.
