---
Aliases: [Psalms 140]
previous: ['Ps 139']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 141']
---
# Psalms 140

***




















###### 1 









Rescue me, LORD, from evildoers; protect me from the violent, 



















###### 2 









who devise evil plans in their hearts and stir up war every day. 



















###### 3 









They make their tongues as sharp as a serpent's; the poison of vipers is on their lips.[^b] 



















###### 4 









Keep me safe, LORD, from the hands of the wicked; protect me from the violent, who devise ways to trip my feet. 



















###### 5 









The arrogant have hidden a snare for me; they have spread out the cords of their net and have set traps for me along my path. 



















###### 6 









I say to the LORD, "You are my God." Hear, LORD, my cry for mercy. 



















###### 7 









Sovereign LORD, my strong deliverer, you shield my head in the day of battle. 



















###### 8 









Do not grant the wicked their desires, LORD; do not let their plans succeed. 



















###### 9 









Those who surround me proudly rear their heads; may the mischief of their lips engulf them. 



















###### 10 









May burning coals fall on them; may they be thrown into the fire, into miry pits, never to rise. 



















###### 11 









May slanderers not be established in the land; may disaster hunt down the violent. 



















###### 12 









I know that the LORD secures justice for the poor and upholds the cause of the needy. 



















###### 13 









Surely the righteous will praise your name, and the upright will live in your presence. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 140:1 In Hebrew texts 140:1-13 is numbered 140:2-14. [^b]: Psalm 140:3 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here and at the end of verses 5 and 8.
