---
Aliases: [Psalms 137]
previous: ['Ps 136']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 138']
---
# Psalms 137

***




















###### 1 









By the rivers of Babylon we sat and wept when we remembered Zion. 



















###### 2 









There on the poplars we hung our harps, 



















###### 3 









for there our captors asked us for songs, our tormentors demanded songs of joy; they said, "Sing us one of the songs of Zion!" 



















###### 4 









How can we sing the songs of the LORD while in a foreign land? 



















###### 5 









If I forget you, Jerusalem, may my right hand forget its skill. 



















###### 6 









May my tongue cling to the roof of my mouth if I do not remember you, if I do not consider Jerusalem my highest joy. 



















###### 7 









Remember, LORD, what the Edomites did on the day Jerusalem fell. "Tear it down," they cried, "tear it down to its foundations!" 



















###### 8 









Daughter Babylon, doomed to destruction, happy is the one who repays you according to what you have done to us. 



















###### 9 









Happy is the one who seizes your infants and dashes them against the rocks. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
