---
Aliases: [Psalms 101]
previous: ['Ps 100']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 102']
---
# Psalms 101

***




















###### 1 









I will sing of your love and justice; to you, LORD, I will sing praise. 



















###### 2 









I will be careful to lead a blameless life-- when will you come to me? I will conduct the affairs of my house with a blameless heart. 



















###### 3 









I will not look with approval on anything that is vile. I hate what faithless people do; I will have no part in it. 



















###### 4 









The perverse of heart shall be far from me; I will have nothing to do with what is evil. 



















###### 5 









Whoever slanders their neighbor in secret, I will put to silence; whoever has haughty eyes and a proud heart, I will not tolerate. 



















###### 6 









My eyes will be on the faithful in the land, that they may dwell with me; the one whose walk is blameless will minister to me. 



















###### 7 









No one who practices deceit will dwell in my house; no one who speaks falsely will stand in my presence. 



















###### 8 









Every morning I will put to silence all the wicked in the land; I will cut off every evildoer from the city of the LORD. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
