---
Aliases: [Psalms 148]
previous: ['Ps 147']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 149']
---
# Psalms 148

***




















###### 1 









Praise the LORD.[^a] Praise the LORD from the heavens; praise him in the heights above. 



















###### 2 









Praise him, all his angels; praise him, all his heavenly hosts. 



















###### 3 









Praise him, sun and moon; praise him, all you shining stars. 



















###### 4 









Praise him, you highest heavens and you waters above the skies. 



















###### 5 









Let them praise the name of the LORD, for at his command they were created, 



















###### 6 









and he established them for ever and ever-- he issued a decree that will never pass away. 



















###### 7 









Praise the LORD from the earth, you great sea creatures and all ocean depths, 



















###### 8 









lightning and hail, snow and clouds, stormy winds that do his bidding, 



















###### 9 









you mountains and all hills, fruit trees and all cedars, 



















###### 10 









wild animals and all cattle, small creatures and flying birds, 



















###### 11 









kings of the earth and all nations, you princes and all rulers on earth, 



















###### 12 









young men and women, old men and children. 



















###### 13 









Let them praise the name of the LORD, for his name alone is exalted; his splendor is above the earth and the heavens. 



















###### 14 









And he has raised up for his people a horn,[^b] the praise of all his faithful servants, of Israel, the people close to his heart. Praise the LORD. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 148:1 Hebrew _Hallelu Yah_; also in verse 14 [^b]: Psalm 148:14 _Horn_ here symbolizes strength.
