---
Aliases: [Psalms 138]
previous: ['Ps 137']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 139']
---
# Psalms 138

***




















###### 1 









I will praise you, LORD, with all my heart; before the "gods" I will sing your praise. 



















###### 2 









I will bow down toward your holy temple and will praise your name for your unfailing love and your faithfulness, for you have so exalted your solemn decree that it surpasses your fame. 



















###### 3 









When I called, you answered me; you greatly emboldened me. 



















###### 4 









May all the kings of the earth praise you, LORD, when they hear what you have decreed. 



















###### 5 









May they sing of the ways of the LORD, for the glory of the LORD is great. 



















###### 6 









Though the LORD is exalted, he looks kindly on the lowly; though lofty, he sees them from afar. 



















###### 7 









Though I walk in the midst of trouble, you preserve my life. You stretch out your hand against the anger of my foes; with your right hand you save me. 



















###### 8 









The LORD will vindicate me; your love, LORD, endures forever-- do not abandon the works of your hands. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
