---
Aliases: [Psalms 136]
previous: ['Ps 135']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 137']
---
# Psalms 136

***




















###### 1 









Give thanks to the LORD, for he is good. _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 2 









Give thanks to the God of gods. _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 3 









Give thanks to the Lord of lords: _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 4 









to him who alone does great wonders, _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 5 









who by his understanding made the heavens, _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 6 









who spread out the earth upon the waters, _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 7 









who made the great lights-- _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 8 









the sun to govern the day, _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 9 









the moon and stars to govern the night; _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 10 









to him who struck down the firstborn of Egypt _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 11 









and brought Israel out from among them _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 12 









with a mighty hand and outstretched arm; _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 13 









to him who divided the Red Sea[^a] asunder _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 14 









and brought Israel through the midst of it, _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 15 









but swept Pharaoh and his army into the Red Sea; _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 16 









to him who led his people through the wilderness; _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 17 









to him who struck down great kings, _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 18 









and killed mighty kings-- _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 19 









Sihon king of the Amorites _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 20 









and Og king of Bashan-- _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 21 









and gave their land as an inheritance, _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 22 









an inheritance to his servant Israel. _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 23 









He remembered us in our low estate _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 24 









and freed us from our enemies. _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 25 









He gives food to every creature. _His love endures forever._ 



















###### 26 









Give thanks to the God of heaven. _His love endures forever._ NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 136:13 Or _the Sea of Reeds_; also in verse 15
