---
Aliases: [Psalms 17]
previous: ['Ps 16']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 18']
---
# Psalms 17

***




















###### 1 









Hear me, LORD, my plea is just; listen to my cry. Hear my prayer-- it does not rise from deceitful lips. 



















###### 2 









Let my vindication come from you; may your eyes see what is right. 



















###### 3 









Though you probe my heart, though you examine me at night and test me, you will find that I have planned no evil; my mouth has not transgressed. 



















###### 4 









Though people tried to bribe me, I have kept myself from the ways of the violent through what your lips have commanded. 



















###### 5 









My steps have held to your paths; my feet have not stumbled. 



















###### 6 









I call on you, my God, for you will answer me; turn your ear to me and hear my prayer. 



















###### 7 









Show me the wonders of your great love, you who save by your right hand those who take refuge in you from their foes. 



















###### 8 









Keep me as the apple of your eye; hide me in the shadow of your wings 



















###### 9 









from the wicked who are out to destroy me, from my mortal enemies who surround me. 



















###### 10 









They close up their callous hearts, and their mouths speak with arrogance. 



















###### 11 









They have tracked me down, they now surround me, with eyes alert, to throw me to the ground. 



















###### 12 









They are like a lion hungry for prey, like a fierce lion crouching in cover. 



















###### 13 









Rise up, LORD, confront them, bring them down; with your sword rescue me from the wicked. 



















###### 14 









By your hand save me from such people, LORD, from those of this world whose reward is in this life. May what you have stored up for the wicked fill their bellies; may their children gorge themselves on it, and may there be leftovers for their little ones. 



















###### 15 









As for me, I will be vindicated and will see your face; when I awake, I will be satisfied with seeing your likeness. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
