---
Aliases: [Psalms 110]
previous: ['Ps 109']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 111']
---
# Psalms 110

***




















###### 1 









The LORD says to my lord:[^a] "Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet." 



















###### 2 









The LORD will extend your mighty scepter from Zion, saying, "Rule in the midst of your enemies!" 



















###### 3 









Your troops will be willing on your day of battle. Arrayed in holy splendor, your young men will come to you like dew from the morning's womb.[^b] 



















###### 4 









The LORD has sworn and will not change his mind: "You are a priest forever, in the order of Melchizedek." 



















###### 5 









The Lord is at your right hand[^c]; he will crush kings on the day of his wrath. 



















###### 6 









He will judge the nations, heaping up the dead and crushing the rulers of the whole earth. 



















###### 7 









He will drink from a brook along the way,[^d] and so he will lift his head high. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 110:1 Or _Lord_ [^b]: Psalm 110:3 The meaning of the Hebrew for this sentence is uncertain. [^c]: Psalm 110:5 Or _My lord is at your right hand, Lord_ [^d]: Psalm 110:7 The meaning of the Hebrew for this clause is uncertain.
