---
Aliases: [Psalms 12]
previous: ['Ps 11']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 13']
---
# Psalms 12

***




















###### 1 









Help, LORD, for no one is faithful anymore; those who are loyal have vanished from the human race. 



















###### 2 









Everyone lies to their neighbor; they flatter with their lips but harbor deception in their hearts. 



















###### 3 









May the LORD silence all flattering lips and every boastful tongue-- 



















###### 4 









those who say, "By our tongues we will prevail; our own lips will defend us--who is lord over us?" 



















###### 5 









"Because the poor are plundered and the needy groan, I will now arise," says the LORD. "I will protect them from those who malign them." 



















###### 6 









And the words of the LORD are flawless, like silver purified in a crucible, like gold[^c] refined seven times. 



















###### 7 









You, LORD, will keep the needy safe and will protect us forever from the wicked, 



















###### 8 









who freely strut about when what is vile is honored by the human race. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 12:1 In Hebrew texts 12:1-8 is numbered 12:2-9. [^b]: Psalm 12:1 Title: Probably a musical term [^c]: Psalm 12:6 Probable reading of the original Hebrew text; Masoretic Text _earth_
