---
Aliases: [Psalms 18]
previous: ['Ps 17']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 19']
---
# Psalms 18

***




















###### 1 









I love you, LORD, my strength. 



















###### 2 









The LORD is my rock, my fortress and my deliverer; my God is my rock, in whom I take refuge, my shield[^b] and the horn[^c] of my salvation, my stronghold. 



















###### 3 









I called to the LORD, who is worthy of praise, and I have been saved from my enemies. 



















###### 4 









The cords of death entangled me; the torrents of destruction overwhelmed me. 



















###### 5 









The cords of the grave coiled around me; the snares of death confronted me. 



















###### 6 









In my distress I called to the LORD; I cried to my God for help. From his temple he heard my voice; my cry came before him, into his ears. 



















###### 7 









The earth trembled and quaked, and the foundations of the mountains shook; they trembled because he was angry. 



















###### 8 









Smoke rose from his nostrils; consuming fire came from his mouth, burning coals blazed out of it. 



















###### 9 









He parted the heavens and came down; dark clouds were under his feet. 



















###### 10 









He mounted the cherubim and flew; he soared on the wings of the wind. 



















###### 11 









He made darkness his covering, his canopy around him-- the dark rain clouds of the sky. 



















###### 12 









Out of the brightness of his presence clouds advanced, with hailstones and bolts of lightning. 



















###### 13 









The LORD thundered from heaven; the voice of the Most High resounded.[^d] 



















###### 14 









He shot his arrows and scattered the enemy, with great bolts of lightning he routed them. 



















###### 15 









The valleys of the sea were exposed and the foundations of the earth laid bare at your rebuke, LORD, at the blast of breath from your nostrils. 



















###### 16 









He reached down from on high and took hold of me; he drew me out of deep waters. 



















###### 17 









He rescued me from my powerful enemy, from my foes, who were too strong for me. 



















###### 18 









They confronted me in the day of my disaster, but the LORD was my support. 



















###### 19 









He brought me out into a spacious place; he rescued me because he delighted in me. 



















###### 20 









The LORD has dealt with me according to my righteousness; according to the cleanness of my hands he has rewarded me. 



















###### 21 









For I have kept the ways of the LORD; I am not guilty of turning from my God. 



















###### 22 









All his laws are before me; I have not turned away from his decrees. 



















###### 23 









I have been blameless before him and have kept myself from sin. 



















###### 24 









The LORD has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his sight. 



















###### 25 









To the faithful you show yourself faithful, to the blameless you show yourself blameless, 



















###### 26 









to the pure you show yourself pure, but to the devious you show yourself shrewd. 



















###### 27 









You save the humble but bring low those whose eyes are haughty. 



















###### 28 









You, LORD, keep my lamp burning; my God turns my darkness into light. 



















###### 29 









With your help I can advance against a troop[^e]; with my God I can scale a wall. 



















###### 30 









As for God, his way is perfect: The LORD's word is flawless; he shields all who take refuge in him. 



















###### 31 









For who is God besides the LORD? And who is the Rock except our God? 



















###### 32 









It is God who arms me with strength and keeps my way secure. 



















###### 33 









He makes my feet like the feet of a deer; he causes me to stand on the heights. 



















###### 34 









He trains my hands for battle; my arms can bend a bow of bronze. 



















###### 35 









You make your saving help my shield, and your right hand sustains me; your help has made me great. 



















###### 36 









You provide a broad path for my feet, so that my ankles do not give way. 



















###### 37 









I pursued my enemies and overtook them; I did not turn back till they were destroyed. 



















###### 38 









I crushed them so that they could not rise; they fell beneath my feet. 



















###### 39 









You armed me with strength for battle; you humbled my adversaries before me. 



















###### 40 









You made my enemies turn their backs in flight, and I destroyed my foes. 



















###### 41 









They cried for help, but there was no one to save them-- to the LORD, but he did not answer. 



















###### 42 









I beat them as fine as windblown dust; I trampled them[^f] like mud in the streets. 



















###### 43 









You have delivered me from the attacks of the people; you have made me the head of nations. People I did not know now serve me, 



















###### 44 









foreigners cower before me; as soon as they hear of me, they obey me. 



















###### 45 









They all lose heart; they come trembling from their strongholds. 



















###### 46 









The LORD lives! Praise be to my Rock! Exalted be God my Savior! 



















###### 47 









He is the God who avenges me, who subdues nations under me, 



















###### 48 









who saves me from my enemies. You exalted me above my foes; from a violent man you rescued me. 



















###### 49 









Therefore I will praise you, LORD, among the nations; I will sing the praises of your name. 



















###### 50 









He gives his king great victories; he shows unfailing love to his anointed, to David and to his descendants forever. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 18:1 In Hebrew texts 18:1-50 is numbered 18:2-51. [^b]: Psalm 18:2 Or _sovereign_ [^c]: Psalm 18:2 _Horn_ here symbolizes strength. [^d]: Psalm 18:13 Some Hebrew manuscripts and Septuagint (see also 2 Samuel 22:14); most Hebrew manuscripts _resounded, / amid hailstones and bolts of lightning_ [^e]: Psalm 18:29 Or _can run through a barricade_ [^f]: Psalm 18:42 Many Hebrew manuscripts, Septuagint, Syriac and Targum (see also 2 Samuel 22:43); Masoretic Text _I poured them out_
