---
Aliases: [Psalms 107]
previous: ['Ps 106']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 108']
---
# Psalms 107

***




















###### 1 









Give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; his love endures forever. 



















###### 2 









Let the redeemed of the LORD tell their story-- those he redeemed from the hand of the foe, 



















###### 3 









those he gathered from the lands, from east and west, from north and south.[^a] 



















###### 4 









Some wandered in desert wastelands, finding no way to a city where they could settle. 



















###### 5 









They were hungry and thirsty, and their lives ebbed away. 



















###### 6 









Then they cried out to the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. 



















###### 7 









He led them by a straight way to a city where they could settle. 



















###### 8 









Let them give thanks to the LORD for his unfailing love and his wonderful deeds for mankind, 



















###### 9 









for he satisfies the thirsty and fills the hungry with good things. 



















###### 10 









Some sat in darkness, in utter darkness, prisoners suffering in iron chains, 



















###### 11 









because they rebelled against God's commands and despised the plans of the Most High. 



















###### 12 









So he subjected them to bitter labor; they stumbled, and there was no one to help. 



















###### 13 









Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he saved them from their distress. 



















###### 14 









He brought them out of darkness, the utter darkness, and broke away their chains. 



















###### 15 









Let them give thanks to the LORD for his unfailing love and his wonderful deeds for mankind, 



















###### 16 









for he breaks down gates of bronze and cuts through bars of iron. 



















###### 17 









Some became fools through their rebellious ways and suffered affliction because of their iniquities. 



















###### 18 









They loathed all food and drew near the gates of death. 



















###### 19 









Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he saved them from their distress. 



















###### 20 









He sent out his word and healed them; he rescued them from the grave. 



















###### 21 









Let them give thanks to the LORD for his unfailing love and his wonderful deeds for mankind. 



















###### 22 









Let them sacrifice thank offerings and tell of his works with songs of joy. 



















###### 23 









Some went out on the sea in ships; they were merchants on the mighty waters. 



















###### 24 









They saw the works of the LORD, his wonderful deeds in the deep. 



















###### 25 









For he spoke and stirred up a tempest that lifted high the waves. 



















###### 26 









They mounted up to the heavens and went down to the depths; in their peril their courage melted away. 



















###### 27 









They reeled and staggered like drunkards; they were at their wits' end. 



















###### 28 









Then they cried out to the LORD in their trouble, and he brought them out of their distress. 



















###### 29 









He stilled the storm to a whisper; the waves of the sea[^b] were hushed. 



















###### 30 









They were glad when it grew calm, and he guided them to their desired haven. 



















###### 31 









Let them give thanks to the LORD for his unfailing love and his wonderful deeds for mankind. 



















###### 32 









Let them exalt him in the assembly of the people and praise him in the council of the elders. 



















###### 33 









He turned rivers into a desert, flowing springs into thirsty ground, 



















###### 34 









and fruitful land into a salt waste, because of the wickedness of those who lived there. 



















###### 35 









He turned the desert into pools of water and the parched ground into flowing springs; 



















###### 36 









there he brought the hungry to live, and they founded a city where they could settle. 



















###### 37 









They sowed fields and planted vineyards that yielded a fruitful harvest; 



















###### 38 









he blessed them, and their numbers greatly increased, and he did not let their herds diminish. 



















###### 39 









Then their numbers decreased, and they were humbled by oppression, calamity and sorrow; 



















###### 40 









he who pours contempt on nobles made them wander in a trackless waste. 



















###### 41 









But he lifted the needy out of their affliction and increased their families like flocks. 



















###### 42 









The upright see and rejoice, but all the wicked shut their mouths. 



















###### 43 









Let the one who is wise heed these things and ponder the loving deeds of the LORD. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 107:3 Hebrew _north and the sea_ [^b]: Psalm 107:29 Dead Sea Scrolls; Masoretic Text _/ their waves_
