---
Aliases: [Psalms 115]
previous: ['Ps 114']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 116']
---
# Psalms 115

***




















###### 1 









Not to us, LORD, not to us but to your name be the glory, because of your love and faithfulness. 



















###### 2 









Why do the nations say, "Where is their God?" 



















###### 3 









Our God is in heaven; he does whatever pleases him. 



















###### 4 









But their idols are silver and gold, made by human hands. 



















###### 5 









They have mouths, but cannot speak, eyes, but cannot see. 



















###### 6 









They have ears, but cannot hear, noses, but cannot smell. 



















###### 7 









They have hands, but cannot feel, feet, but cannot walk, nor can they utter a sound with their throats. 



















###### 8 









Those who make them will be like them, and so will all who trust in them. 



















###### 9 









All you Israelites, trust in the LORD-- he is their help and shield. 



















###### 10 









House of Aaron, trust in the LORD-- he is their help and shield. 



















###### 11 









You who fear him, trust in the LORD-- he is their help and shield. 



















###### 12 









The LORD remembers us and will bless us: He will bless his people Israel, he will bless the house of Aaron, 



















###### 13 









he will bless those who fear the LORD-- small and great alike. 



















###### 14 









May the LORD cause you to flourish, both you and your children. 



















###### 15 









May you be blessed by the LORD, the Maker of heaven and earth. 



















###### 16 









The highest heavens belong to the LORD, but the earth he has given to mankind. 



















###### 17 









It is not the dead who praise the LORD, those who go down to the place of silence; 



















###### 18 









it is we who extol the LORD, both now and forevermore. Praise the LORD.[^a] NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 115:18 Hebrew _Hallelu Yah_
