---
Aliases: [Psalms 132]
previous: ['Ps 131']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 133']
---
# Psalms 132

***




















###### 1 









LORD, remember David and all his self-denial. 



















###### 2 









He swore an oath to the LORD, he made a vow to the Mighty One of Jacob: 



















###### 3 









"I will not enter my house or go to my bed, 



















###### 4 









I will allow no sleep to my eyes or slumber to my eyelids, 



















###### 5 









till I find a place for the LORD, a dwelling for the Mighty One of Jacob." 



















###### 6 









We heard it in Ephrathah, we came upon it in the fields of Jaar:[^a] 



















###### 7 









"Let us go to his dwelling place, let us worship at his footstool, saying, 



















###### 8 









'Arise, LORD, and come to your resting place, you and the ark of your might. 



















###### 9 









May your priests be clothed with your righteousness; may your faithful people sing for joy.'" 



















###### 10 









For the sake of your servant David, do not reject your anointed one. 



















###### 11 









The LORD swore an oath to David, a sure oath he will not revoke: "One of your own descendants I will place on your throne. 



















###### 12 









If your sons keep my covenant and the statutes I teach them, then their sons will sit on your throne for ever and ever." 



















###### 13 









For the LORD has chosen Zion, he has desired it for his dwelling, saying, 



















###### 14 









"This is my resting place for ever and ever; here I will sit enthroned, for I have desired it. 



















###### 15 









I will bless her with abundant provisions; her poor I will satisfy with food. 



















###### 16 









I will clothe her priests with salvation, and her faithful people will ever sing for joy. 



















###### 17 









"Here I will make a horn[^b] grow for David and set up a lamp for my anointed one. 



















###### 18 









I will clothe his enemies with shame, but his head will be adorned with a radiant crown." NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 132:6 Or _heard of it in Ephrathah, / we found it in the fields of Jearim._ (See 1 Chron. 13:5,6) (And no quotation marks around verses 7-9) [^b]: Psalm 132:17 _Horn_ here symbolizes strong one, that is, king.
