---
Aliases: [Psalms 111]
previous: ['Ps 110']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 112']
---
# Psalms 111

***




















###### 1 









Praise the LORD.[^b] I will extol the LORD with all my heart in the council of the upright and in the assembly. 



















###### 2 









Great are the works of the LORD; they are pondered by all who delight in them. 



















###### 3 









Glorious and majestic are his deeds, and his righteousness endures forever. 



















###### 4 









He has caused his wonders to be remembered; the LORD is gracious and compassionate. 



















###### 5 









He provides food for those who fear him; he remembers his covenant forever. 



















###### 6 









He has shown his people the power of his works, giving them the lands of other nations. 



















###### 7 









The works of his hands are faithful and just; all his precepts are trustworthy. 



















###### 8 









They are established for ever and ever, enacted in faithfulness and uprightness. 



















###### 9 









He provided redemption for his people; he ordained his covenant forever-- holy and awesome is his name. 



















###### 10 









The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom; all who follow his precepts have good understanding. To him belongs eternal praise. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 111:1 This psalm is an acrostic poem, the lines of which begin with the successive letters of the Hebrew alphabet. [^b]: Psalm 111:1 Hebrew _Hallelu Yah_
