---
Aliases: [Psalms 118]
previous: ['Ps 117']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 119']
---
# Psalms 118

***




















###### 1 









Give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; his love endures forever. 



















###### 2 









Let Israel say: "His love endures forever." 



















###### 3 









Let the house of Aaron say: "His love endures forever." 



















###### 4 









Let those who fear the LORD say: "His love endures forever." 



















###### 5 









When hard pressed, I cried to the LORD; he brought me into a spacious place. 



















###### 6 









The LORD is with me; I will not be afraid. What can mere mortals do to me? 



















###### 7 









The LORD is with me; he is my helper. I look in triumph on my enemies. 



















###### 8 









It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to trust in humans. 



















###### 9 









It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to trust in princes. 



















###### 10 









All the nations surrounded me, but in the name of the LORD I cut them down. 



















###### 11 









They surrounded me on every side, but in the name of the LORD I cut them down. 



















###### 12 









They swarmed around me like bees, but they were consumed as quickly as burning thorns; in the name of the LORD I cut them down. 



















###### 13 









I was pushed back and about to fall, but the LORD helped me. 



















###### 14 









The LORD is my strength and my defense[^a]; he has become my salvation. 



















###### 15 









Shouts of joy and victory resound in the tents of the righteous: "The LORD's right hand has done mighty things! 



















###### 16 









The LORD's right hand is lifted high; the LORD's right hand has done mighty things!" 



















###### 17 









I will not die but live, and will proclaim what the LORD has done. 



















###### 18 









The LORD has chastened me severely, but he has not given me over to death. 



















###### 19 









Open for me the gates of the righteous; I will enter and give thanks to the LORD. 



















###### 20 









This is the gate of the LORD through which the righteous may enter. 



















###### 21 









I will give you thanks, for you answered me; you have become my salvation. 



















###### 22 









The stone the builders rejected has become the cornerstone; 



















###### 23 









the LORD has done this, and it is marvelous in our eyes. 



















###### 24 









The LORD has done it this very day; let us rejoice today and be glad. 



















###### 25 









LORD, save us! LORD, grant us success! 



















###### 26 









Blessed is he who comes in the name of the LORD. From the house of the LORD we bless you.[^b] 



















###### 27 









The LORD is God, and he has made his light shine on us. With boughs in hand, join in the festal procession up[^c] to the horns of the altar. 



















###### 28 









You are my God, and I will praise you; you are my God, and I will exalt you. 



















###### 29 









Give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; his love endures forever. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 118:14 Or _song_ [^b]: Psalm 118:26 The Hebrew is plural. [^c]: Psalm 118:27 Or _Bind the festal sacrifice with ropes / and take it_
