---
Aliases: [Psalms 113]
previous: ['Ps 112']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 114']
---
# Psalms 113

***




















###### 1 









Praise the LORD.[^a] Praise the LORD, you his servants; praise the name of the LORD. 



















###### 2 









Let the name of the LORD be praised, both now and forevermore. 



















###### 3 









From the rising of the sun to the place where it sets, the name of the LORD is to be praised. 



















###### 4 









The LORD is exalted over all the nations, his glory above the heavens. 



















###### 5 









Who is like the LORD our God, the One who sits enthroned on high, 



















###### 6 









who stoops down to look on the heavens and the earth? 



















###### 7 









He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap; 



















###### 8 









he seats them with princes, with the princes of his people. 



















###### 9 









He settles the childless woman in her home as a happy mother of children. Praise the LORD. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 113:1 Hebrew _Hallelu Yah_; also in verse 9
