---
Aliases: [Psalms 11]
previous: ['Ps 10']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 12']
---
# Psalms 11

***




















###### 1 









In the LORD I take refuge. How then can you say to me: "Flee like a bird to your mountain. 



















###### 2 









For look, the wicked bend their bows; they set their arrows against the strings to shoot from the shadows at the upright in heart. 



















###### 3 









When the foundations are being destroyed, what can the righteous do?" 



















###### 4 









The LORD is in his holy temple; the LORD is on his heavenly throne. He observes everyone on earth; his eyes examine them. 



















###### 5 









The LORD examines the righteous, but the wicked, those who love violence, he hates with a passion. 



















###### 6 









On the wicked he will rain fiery coals and burning sulfur; a scorching wind will be their lot. 



















###### 7 









For the LORD is righteous, he loves justice; the upright will see his face. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
