---
Aliases: [Psalms 112]
previous: ['Ps 111']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 113']
---
# Psalms 112

***




















###### 1 









Praise the LORD.[^b] Blessed are those who fear the LORD, who find great delight in his commands. 



















###### 2 









Their children will be mighty in the land; the generation of the upright will be blessed. 



















###### 3 









Wealth and riches are in their houses, and their righteousness endures forever. 



















###### 4 









Even in darkness light dawns for the upright, for those who are gracious and compassionate and righteous. 



















###### 5 









Good will come to those who are generous and lend freely, who conduct their affairs with justice. 



















###### 6 









Surely the righteous will never be shaken; they will be remembered forever. 



















###### 7 









They will have no fear of bad news; their hearts are steadfast, trusting in the LORD. 



















###### 8 









Their hearts are secure, they will have no fear; in the end they will look in triumph on their foes. 



















###### 9 









They have freely scattered their gifts to the poor, their righteousness endures forever; their horn[^c] will be lifted high in honor. 



















###### 10 









The wicked will see and be vexed, they will gnash their teeth and waste away; the longings of the wicked will come to nothing. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 112:1 This psalm is an acrostic poem, the lines of which begin with the successive letters of the Hebrew alphabet. [^b]: Psalm 112:1 Hebrew _Hallelu Yah_ [^c]: Psalm 112:9 _Horn_ here symbolizes dignity.
