---
Aliases: [Psalms 19]
previous: ['Ps 18']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 20']
---
# Psalms 19

***




















###### 1 









The heavens declare the glory of God; the skies proclaim the work of his hands. 



















###### 2 









Day after day they pour forth speech; night after night they reveal knowledge. 



















###### 3 









They have no speech, they use no words; no sound is heard from them. 



















###### 4 









Yet their voice[^b] goes out into all the earth, their words to the ends of the world. In the heavens God has pitched a tent for the sun. 



















###### 5 









It is like a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, like a champion rejoicing to run his course. 



















###### 6 









It rises at one end of the heavens and makes its circuit to the other; nothing is deprived of its warmth. 



















###### 7 









The law of the LORD is perfect, refreshing the soul. The statutes of the LORD are trustworthy, making wise the simple. 



















###### 8 









The precepts of the LORD are right, giving joy to the heart. The commands of the LORD are radiant, giving light to the eyes. 



















###### 9 









The fear of the LORD is pure, enduring forever. The decrees of the LORD are firm, and all of them are righteous. 



















###### 10 









They are more precious than gold, than much pure gold; they are sweeter than honey, than honey from the honeycomb. 



















###### 11 









By them your servant is warned; in keeping them there is great reward. 



















###### 12 









But who can discern their own errors? Forgive my hidden faults. 



















###### 13 









Keep your servant also from willful sins; may they not rule over me. Then I will be blameless, innocent of great transgression. 



















###### 14 









May these words of my mouth and this meditation of my heart be pleasing in your sight, LORD, my Rock and my Redeemer. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 19:1 In Hebrew texts 19:1-14 is numbered 19:2-15. [^b]: Psalm 19:4 Septuagint, Jerome and Syriac; Hebrew _measuring line_
