---
Aliases: [Psalms 108]
previous: ['Ps 107']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 109']
---
# Psalms 108

***




















###### 1 









My heart, O God, is steadfast; I will sing and make music with all my soul. 



















###### 2 









Awake, harp and lyre! I will awaken the dawn. 



















###### 3 









I will praise you, LORD, among the nations; I will sing of you among the peoples. 



















###### 4 









For great is your love, higher than the heavens; your faithfulness reaches to the skies. 



















###### 5 









Be exalted, O God, above the heavens; let your glory be over all the earth. 



















###### 6 









Save us and help us with your right hand, that those you love may be delivered. 



















###### 7 









God has spoken from his sanctuary: "In triumph I will parcel out Shechem and measure off the Valley of Sukkoth. 



















###### 8 









Gilead is mine, Manasseh is mine; Ephraim is my helmet, Judah is my scepter. 



















###### 9 









Moab is my washbasin, on Edom I toss my sandal; over Philistia I shout in triumph." 



















###### 10 









Who will bring me to the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom? 



















###### 11 









Is it not you, God, you who have rejected us and no longer go out with our armies? 



















###### 12 









Give us aid against the enemy, for human help is worthless. 



















###### 13 









With God we will gain the victory, and he will trample down our enemies. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 108:1 In Hebrew texts 108:1-13 is numbered 108:2-14.
