---
Aliases: [Psalms 139]
previous: ['Ps 138']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 140']
---
# Psalms 139

***




















###### 1 









You have searched me, LORD, and you know me. 



















###### 2 









You know when I sit and when I rise; you perceive my thoughts from afar. 



















###### 3 









You discern my going out and my lying down; you are familiar with all my ways. 



















###### 4 









Before a word is on my tongue you, LORD, know it completely. 



















###### 5 









You hem me in behind and before, and you lay your hand upon me. 



















###### 6 









Such knowledge is too wonderful for me, too lofty for me to attain. 



















###### 7 









Where can I go from your Spirit? Where can I flee from your presence? 



















###### 8 









If I go up to the heavens, you are there; if I make my bed in the depths, you are there. 



















###### 9 









If I rise on the wings of the dawn, if I settle on the far side of the sea, 



















###### 10 









even there your hand will guide me, your right hand will hold me fast. 



















###### 11 









If I say, "Surely the darkness will hide me and the light become night around me," 



















###### 12 









even the darkness will not be dark to you; the night will shine like the day, for darkness is as light to you. 



















###### 13 









For you created my inmost being; you knit me together in my mother's womb. 



















###### 14 









I praise you because I am fearfully and wonderfully made; your works are wonderful, I know that full well. 



















###### 15 









My frame was not hidden from you when I was made in the secret place, when I was woven together in the depths of the earth. 



















###### 16 









Your eyes saw my unformed body; all the days ordained for me were written in your book before one of them came to be. 



















###### 17 









How precious to me are your thoughts,[^a] God! How vast is the sum of them! 



















###### 18 









Were I to count them, they would outnumber the grains of sand-- when I awake, I am still with you. 



















###### 19 









If only you, God, would slay the wicked! Away from me, you who are bloodthirsty! 



















###### 20 









They speak of you with evil intent; your adversaries misuse your name. 



















###### 21 









Do I not hate those who hate you, LORD, and abhor those who are in rebellion against you? 



















###### 22 









I have nothing but hatred for them; I count them my enemies. 



















###### 23 









Search me, God, and know my heart; test me and know my anxious thoughts. 



















###### 24 









See if there is any offensive way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 139:17 Or _How amazing are your thoughts concerning me_
