---
Aliases: [Psalms 145]
previous: ['Ps 144']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 146']
---
# Psalms 145

***




















###### 1 









I will exalt you, my God the King; I will praise your name for ever and ever. 



















###### 2 









Every day I will praise you and extol your name for ever and ever. 



















###### 3 









Great is the LORD and most worthy of praise; his greatness no one can fathom. 



















###### 4 









One generation commends your works to another; they tell of your mighty acts. 



















###### 5 









They speak of the glorious splendor of your majesty-- and I will meditate on your wonderful works.[^b] 



















###### 6 









They tell of the power of your awesome works-- and I will proclaim your great deeds. 



















###### 7 









They celebrate your abundant goodness and joyfully sing of your righteousness. 



















###### 8 









The LORD is gracious and compassionate, slow to anger and rich in love. 



















###### 9 









The LORD is good to all; he has compassion on all he has made. 



















###### 10 









All your works praise you, LORD; your faithful people extol you. 



















###### 11 









They tell of the glory of your kingdom and speak of your might, 



















###### 12 









so that all people may know of your mighty acts and the glorious splendor of your kingdom. 



















###### 13 









Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and your dominion endures through all generations. The LORD is trustworthy in all he promises and faithful in all he does.[^c] 



















###### 14 









The LORD upholds all who fall and lifts up all who are bowed down. 



















###### 15 









The eyes of all look to you, and you give them their food at the proper time. 



















###### 16 









You open your hand and satisfy the desires of every living thing. 



















###### 17 









The LORD is righteous in all his ways and faithful in all he does. 



















###### 18 









The LORD is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth. 



















###### 19 









He fulfills the desires of those who fear him; he hears their cry and saves them. 



















###### 20 









The LORD watches over all who love him, but all the wicked he will destroy. 



















###### 21 









My mouth will speak in praise of the LORD. Let every creature praise his holy name for ever and ever. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 145:1 This psalm is an acrostic poem, the verses of which (including verse 13b) begin with the successive letters of the Hebrew alphabet. [^b]: Psalm 145:5 Dead Sea Scrolls and Syriac (see also Septuagint); Masoretic Text _On the glorious splendor of your majesty / and on your wonderful works I will meditate_ [^c]: Psalm 145:13 One manuscript of the Masoretic Text, Dead Sea Scrolls and Syriac (see also Septuagint); most manuscripts of the Masoretic Text do not have the last two lines of verse 13.
