---
Aliases: [Psalms 16]
previous: ['Ps 15']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 17']
---
# Psalms 16

***




















###### 1 









Keep me safe, my God, for in you I take refuge. 



















###### 2 









I say to the LORD, "You are my Lord; apart from you I have no good thing." 



















###### 3 









I say of the holy people who are in the land, "They are the noble ones in whom is all my delight." 



















###### 4 









Those who run after other gods will suffer more and more. I will not pour out libations of blood to such gods or take up their names on my lips. 



















###### 5 









LORD, you alone are my portion and my cup; you make my lot secure. 



















###### 6 









The boundary lines have fallen for me in pleasant places; surely I have a delightful inheritance. 



















###### 7 









I will praise the LORD, who counsels me; even at night my heart instructs me. 



















###### 8 









I keep my eyes always on the LORD. With him at my right hand, I will not be shaken. 



















###### 9 









Therefore my heart is glad and my tongue rejoices; my body also will rest secure, 



















###### 10 









because you will not abandon me to the realm of the dead, nor will you let your faithful[^b] one see decay. 



















###### 11 









You make known to me the path of life; you will fill me with joy in your presence, with eternal pleasures at your right hand. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 16:1 Title: Probably a literary or musical term [^b]: Psalm 16:10 Or _holy_
