---
Aliases: [Psalms 144]
previous: ['Ps 143']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 145']
---
# Psalms 144

***




















###### 1 









Praise be to the LORD my Rock, who trains my hands for war, my fingers for battle. 



















###### 2 









He is my loving God and my fortress, my stronghold and my deliverer, my shield, in whom I take refuge, who subdues peoples[^a] under me. 



















###### 3 









LORD, what are human beings that you care for them, mere mortals that you think of them? 



















###### 4 









They are like a breath; their days are like a fleeting shadow. 



















###### 5 









Part your heavens, LORD, and come down; touch the mountains, so that they smoke. 



















###### 6 









Send forth lightning and scatter the enemy; shoot your arrows and rout them. 



















###### 7 









Reach down your hand from on high; deliver me and rescue me from the mighty waters, from the hands of foreigners 



















###### 8 









whose mouths are full of lies, whose right hands are deceitful. 



















###### 9 









I will sing a new song to you, my God; on the ten-stringed lyre I will make music to you, 



















###### 10 









to the One who gives victory to kings, who delivers his servant David. From the deadly sword <sup class="versenum mid-line">11</sup>deliver me; rescue me from the hands of foreigners whose mouths are full of lies, whose right hands are deceitful. 



















###### 12 









Then our sons in their youth will be like well-nurtured plants, and our daughters will be like pillars carved to adorn a palace. 



















###### 13 









Our barns will be filled with every kind of provision. Our sheep will increase by thousands, by tens of thousands in our fields; 



















###### 14 









our oxen will draw heavy loads.[^b] There will be no breaching of walls, no going into captivity, no cry of distress in our streets. 



















###### 15 









Blessed is the people of whom this is true; blessed is the people whose God is the LORD. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 144:2 Many manuscripts of the Masoretic Text, Dead Sea Scrolls, Aquila, Jerome and Syriac; most manuscripts of the Masoretic Text _subdues my people_ [^b]: Psalm 144:14 Or _our chieftains will be firmly established_
