---
Aliases: [Psalms 141]
previous: ['Ps 140']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 142']
---
# Psalms 141

***




















###### 1 









I call to you, LORD, come quickly to me; hear me when I call to you. 



















###### 2 









May my prayer be set before you like incense; may the lifting up of my hands be like the evening sacrifice. 



















###### 3 









Set a guard over my mouth, LORD; keep watch over the door of my lips. 



















###### 4 









Do not let my heart be drawn to what is evil so that I take part in wicked deeds along with those who are evildoers; do not let me eat their delicacies. 



















###### 5 









Let a righteous man strike me--that is a kindness; let him rebuke me--that is oil on my head. My head will not refuse it, for my prayer will still be against the deeds of evildoers. 



















###### 6 









Their rulers will be thrown down from the cliffs, and the wicked will learn that my words were well spoken. 



















###### 7 









They will say, "As one plows and breaks up the earth, so our bones have been scattered at the mouth of the grave." 



















###### 8 









But my eyes are fixed on you, Sovereign LORD; in you I take refuge--do not give me over to death. 



















###### 9 









Keep me safe from the traps set by evildoers, from the snares they have laid for me. 



















###### 10 









Let the wicked fall into their own nets, while I pass by in safety. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
