---
Aliases: [Psalms 122]
previous: ['Ps 121']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 123']
---
# Psalms 122

***




















###### 1 









I rejoiced with those who said to me, "Let us go to the house of the LORD." 



















###### 2 









Our feet are standing in your gates, Jerusalem. 



















###### 3 









Jerusalem is built like a city that is closely compacted together. 



















###### 4 









That is where the tribes go up-- the tribes of the LORD-- to praise the name of the LORD according to the statute given to Israel. 



















###### 5 









There stand the thrones for judgment, the thrones of the house of David. 



















###### 6 









Pray for the peace of Jerusalem: "May those who love you be secure. 



















###### 7 









May there be peace within your walls and security within your citadels." 



















###### 8 









For the sake of my family and friends, I will say, "Peace be within you." 



















###### 9 









For the sake of the house of the LORD our God, I will seek your prosperity. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
