---
Aliases: [Psalms 149]
previous: ['Ps 148']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 150']
---
# Psalms 149

***




















###### 1 









Praise the LORD.[^a] Sing to the LORD a new song, his praise in the assembly of his faithful people. 



















###### 2 









Let Israel rejoice in their Maker; let the people of Zion be glad in their King. 



















###### 3 









Let them praise his name with dancing and make music to him with timbrel and harp. 



















###### 4 









For the LORD takes delight in his people; he crowns the humble with victory. 



















###### 5 









Let his faithful people rejoice in this honor and sing for joy on their beds. 



















###### 6 









May the praise of God be in their mouths and a double-edged sword in their hands, 



















###### 7 









to inflict vengeance on the nations and punishment on the peoples, 



















###### 8 









to bind their kings with fetters, their nobles with shackles of iron, 



















###### 9 









to carry out the sentence written against them-- this is the glory of all his faithful people. Praise the LORD. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 149:1 Hebrew _Hallelu Yah_; also in verse 9
