---
Aliases: [Psalms 20]
previous: ['Ps 19']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 21']
---
# Psalms 20

***




















###### 1 









May the LORD answer you when you are in distress; may the name of the God of Jacob protect you. 



















###### 2 









May he send you help from the sanctuary and grant you support from Zion. 



















###### 3 









May he remember all your sacrifices and accept your burnt offerings.[^b] 



















###### 4 









May he give you the desire of your heart and make all your plans succeed. 



















###### 5 









May we shout for joy over your victory and lift up our banners in the name of our God. May the LORD grant all your requests. 



















###### 6 









Now this I know: The LORD gives victory to his anointed. He answers him from his heavenly sanctuary with the victorious power of his right hand. 



















###### 7 









Some trust in chariots and some in horses, but we trust in the name of the LORD our God. 



















###### 8 









They are brought to their knees and fall, but we rise up and stand firm. 



















###### 9 









LORD, give victory to the king! Answer us when we call! NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 20:1 In Hebrew texts 20:1-9 is numbered 20:2-10. [^b]: Psalm 20:3 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here.
