---
Aliases: [Psalms 25]
previous: ['Ps 24']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 26']
---
# Psalms 25

***




















###### 1 









In you, LORD my God, I put my trust. 



















###### 2 









I trust in you; do not let me be put to shame, nor let my enemies triumph over me. 



















###### 3 









No one who hopes in you will ever be put to shame, but shame will come on those who are treacherous without cause. 



















###### 4 









Show me your ways, LORD, teach me your paths. 



















###### 5 









Guide me in your truth and teach me, for you are God my Savior, and my hope is in you all day long. 



















###### 6 









Remember, LORD, your great mercy and love, for they are from of old. 



















###### 7 









Do not remember the sins of my youth and my rebellious ways; according to your love remember me, for you, LORD, are good. 



















###### 8 









Good and upright is the LORD; therefore he instructs sinners in his ways. 



















###### 9 









He guides the humble in what is right and teaches them his way. 



















###### 10 









All the ways of the LORD are loving and faithful toward those who keep the demands of his covenant. 



















###### 11 









For the sake of your name, LORD, forgive my iniquity, though it is great. 



















###### 12 









Who, then, are those who fear the LORD? He will instruct them in the ways they should choose.[^b] 



















###### 13 









They will spend their days in prosperity, and their descendants will inherit the land. 



















###### 14 









The LORD confides in those who fear him; he makes his covenant known to them. 



















###### 15 









My eyes are ever on the LORD, for only he will release my feet from the snare. 



















###### 16 









Turn to me and be gracious to me, for I am lonely and afflicted. 



















###### 17 









Relieve the troubles of my heart and free me from my anguish. 



















###### 18 









Look on my affliction and my distress and take away all my sins. 



















###### 19 









See how numerous are my enemies and how fiercely they hate me! 



















###### 20 









Guard my life and rescue me; do not let me be put to shame, for I take refuge in you. 



















###### 21 









May integrity and uprightness protect me, because my hope, LORD,[^c] is in you. 



















###### 22 









Deliver Israel, O God, from all their troubles! NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 25:1 This psalm is an acrostic poem, the verses of which begin with the successive letters of the Hebrew alphabet. [^b]: Psalm 25:12 Or _ways he chooses_ [^c]: Psalm 25:21 Septuagint; Hebrew does not have _Lord_.
