---
Aliases: [Psalms 26]
previous: ['Ps 25']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 27']
---
# Psalms 26

***




















###### 1 









Vindicate me, LORD, for I have led a blameless life; I have trusted in the LORD and have not faltered. 



















###### 2 









Test me, LORD, and try me, examine my heart and my mind; 



















###### 3 









for I have always been mindful of your unfailing love and have lived in reliance on your faithfulness. 



















###### 4 









I do not sit with the deceitful, nor do I associate with hypocrites. 



















###### 5 









I abhor the assembly of evildoers and refuse to sit with the wicked. 



















###### 6 









I wash my hands in innocence, and go about your altar, LORD, 



















###### 7 









proclaiming aloud your praise and telling of all your wonderful deeds. 



















###### 8 









LORD, I love the house where you live, the place where your glory dwells. 



















###### 9 









Do not take away my soul along with sinners, my life with those who are bloodthirsty, 



















###### 10 









in whose hands are wicked schemes, whose right hands are full of bribes. 



















###### 11 









I lead a blameless life; deliver me and be merciful to me. 



















###### 12 









My feet stand on level ground; in the great congregation I will praise the LORD. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
