---
Aliases: [Psalms 24]
previous: ['Ps 23']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 25']
---
# Psalms 24

***




















###### 1 









The earth is the LORD's, and everything in it, the world, and all who live in it; 



















###### 2 









for he founded it on the seas and established it on the waters. 



















###### 3 









Who may ascend the mountain of the LORD? Who may stand in his holy place? 



















###### 4 









The one who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not trust in an idol or swear by a false god.[^a] 



















###### 5 









They will receive blessing from the LORD and vindication from God their Savior. 



















###### 6 









Such is the generation of those who seek him, who seek your face, God of Jacob.[^b][^c] 



















###### 7 









Lift up your heads, you gates; be lifted up, you ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in. 



















###### 8 









Who is this King of glory? The LORD strong and mighty, the LORD mighty in battle. 



















###### 9 









Lift up your heads, you gates; lift them up, you ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in. 



















###### 10 









Who is he, this King of glory? The LORD Almighty-- he is the King of glory. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 24:4 Or _swear falsely_ [^b]: Psalm 24:6 Two Hebrew manuscripts and Syriac (see also Septuagint); most Hebrew manuscripts _face, Jacob_ [^c]: Psalm 24:6 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here and at the end of verse 10.
