---
Aliases: [Psalms 27]
previous: ['Ps 26']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 28']
---
# Psalms 27

***




















###### 1 









The LORD is my light and my salvation-- whom shall I fear? The LORD is the stronghold of my life-- of whom shall I be afraid? 



















###### 2 









When the wicked advance against me to devour[^a] me, it is my enemies and my foes who will stumble and fall. 



















###### 3 









Though an army besiege me, my heart will not fear; though war break out against me, even then I will be confident. 



















###### 4 









One thing I ask from the LORD, this only do I seek: that I may dwell in the house of the LORD all the days of my life, to gaze on the beauty of the LORD and to seek him in his temple. 



















###### 5 









For in the day of trouble he will keep me safe in his dwelling; he will hide me in the shelter of his sacred tent and set me high upon a rock. 



















###### 6 









Then my head will be exalted above the enemies who surround me; at his sacred tent I will sacrifice with shouts of joy; I will sing and make music to the LORD. 



















###### 7 









Hear my voice when I call, LORD; be merciful to me and answer me. 



















###### 8 









My heart says of you, "Seek his face!" Your face, LORD, I will seek. 



















###### 9 









Do not hide your face from me, do not turn your servant away in anger; you have been my helper. Do not reject me or forsake me, God my Savior. 



















###### 10 









Though my father and mother forsake me, the LORD will receive me. 



















###### 11 









Teach me your way, LORD; lead me in a straight path because of my oppressors. 



















###### 12 









Do not turn me over to the desire of my foes, for false witnesses rise up against me, spouting malicious accusations. 



















###### 13 









I remain confident of this: I will see the goodness of the LORD in the land of the living. 



















###### 14 









Wait for the LORD; be strong and take heart and wait for the LORD. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 27:2 Or _slander_
