---
Aliases: [Psalms 29]
previous: ['Ps 28']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 30']
---
# Psalms 29

***




















###### 1 









Ascribe to the LORD, you heavenly beings, ascribe to the LORD glory and strength. 



















###### 2 









Ascribe to the LORD the glory due his name; worship the LORD in the splendor of his[^a] holiness. 



















###### 3 









The voice of the LORD is over the waters; the God of glory thunders, the LORD thunders over the mighty waters. 



















###### 4 









The voice of the LORD is powerful; the voice of the LORD is majestic. 



















###### 5 









The voice of the LORD breaks the cedars; the LORD breaks in pieces the cedars of Lebanon. 



















###### 6 









He makes Lebanon leap like a calf, Sirion[^b] like a young wild ox. 



















###### 7 









The voice of the LORD strikes with flashes of lightning. 



















###### 8 









The voice of the LORD shakes the desert; the LORD shakes the Desert of Kadesh. 



















###### 9 









The voice of the LORD twists the oaks[^c] and strips the forests bare. And in his temple all cry, "Glory!" 



















###### 10 









The LORD sits enthroned over the flood; the LORD is enthroned as King forever. 



















###### 11 









The LORD gives strength to his people; the LORD blesses his people with peace. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 29:2 Or _Lord with the splendor of_ [^b]: Psalm 29:6 That is, Mount Hermon [^c]: Psalm 29:9 Or _Lord makes the deer give birth_
