---
Aliases: [Psalms 21]
previous: ['Ps 20']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 22']
---
# Psalms 21

***




















###### 1 









The king rejoices in your strength, LORD. How great is his joy in the victories you give! 



















###### 2 









You have granted him his heart's desire and have not withheld the request of his lips.[^b] 



















###### 3 









You came to greet him with rich blessings and placed a crown of pure gold on his head. 



















###### 4 









He asked you for life, and you gave it to him-- length of days, for ever and ever. 



















###### 5 









Through the victories you gave, his glory is great; you have bestowed on him splendor and majesty. 



















###### 6 









Surely you have granted him unending blessings and made him glad with the joy of your presence. 



















###### 7 









For the king trusts in the LORD; through the unfailing love of the Most High he will not be shaken. 



















###### 8 









Your hand will lay hold on all your enemies; your right hand will seize your foes. 



















###### 9 









When you appear for battle, you will burn them up as in a blazing furnace. The LORD will swallow them up in his wrath, and his fire will consume them. 



















###### 10 









You will destroy their descendants from the earth, their posterity from mankind. 



















###### 11 









Though they plot evil against you and devise wicked schemes, they cannot succeed. 



















###### 12 









You will make them turn their backs when you aim at them with drawn bow. 



















###### 13 









Be exalted in your strength, LORD; we will sing and praise your might. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 21:1 In Hebrew texts 21:1-13 is numbered 21:2-14. [^b]: Psalm 21:2 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here.
