---
Aliases: [Psalms 22]
previous: ['Ps 21']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 23']
---
# Psalms 22

***




















###### 1 









My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me, so far from my cries of anguish? 



















###### 2 









My God, I cry out by day, but you do not answer, by night, but I find no rest.[^b] 



















###### 3 









Yet you are enthroned as the Holy One; you are the one Israel praises.[^c] 



















###### 4 









In you our ancestors put their trust; they trusted and you delivered them. 



















###### 5 









To you they cried out and were saved; in you they trusted and were not put to shame. 



















###### 6 









But I am a worm and not a man, scorned by everyone, despised by the people. 



















###### 7 









All who see me mock me; they hurl insults, shaking their heads. 



















###### 8 









"He trusts in the LORD," they say, "let the LORD rescue him. Let him deliver him, since he delights in him." 



















###### 9 









Yet you brought me out of the womb; you made me trust in you, even at my mother's breast. 



















###### 10 









From birth I was cast on you; from my mother's womb you have been my God. 



















###### 11 









Do not be far from me, for trouble is near and there is no one to help. 



















###### 12 









Many bulls surround me; strong bulls of Bashan encircle me. 



















###### 13 









Roaring lions that tear their prey open their mouths wide against me. 



















###### 14 









I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint. My heart has turned to wax; it has melted within me. 



















###### 15 









My mouth[^d] is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue sticks to the roof of my mouth; you lay me in the dust of death. 



















###### 16 









Dogs surround me, a pack of villains encircles me; they pierce[^e] my hands and my feet. 



















###### 17 









All my bones are on display; people stare and gloat over me. 



















###### 18 









They divide my clothes among them and cast lots for my garment. 



















###### 19 









But you, LORD, do not be far from me. You are my strength; come quickly to help me. 



















###### 20 









Deliver me from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dogs. 



















###### 21 









Rescue me from the mouth of the lions; save me from the horns of the wild oxen. 



















###### 22 









I will declare your name to my people; in the assembly I will praise you. 



















###### 23 









You who fear the LORD, praise him! All you descendants of Jacob, honor him! Revere him, all you descendants of Israel! 



















###### 24 









For he has not despised or scorned the suffering of the afflicted one; he has not hidden his face from him but has listened to his cry for help. 



















###### 25 









From you comes the theme of my praise in the great assembly; before those who fear you[^f] I will fulfill my vows. 



















###### 26 









The poor will eat and be satisfied; those who seek the LORD will praise him-- may your hearts live forever! 



















###### 27 









All the ends of the earth will remember and turn to the LORD, and all the families of the nations will bow down before him, 



















###### 28 









for dominion belongs to the LORD and he rules over the nations. 



















###### 29 









All the rich of the earth will feast and worship; all who go down to the dust will kneel before him-- those who cannot keep themselves alive. 



















###### 30 









Posterity will serve him; future generations will be told about the Lord. 



















###### 31 









They will proclaim his righteousness, declaring to a people yet unborn: He has done it! NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 22:1 In Hebrew texts 22:1-31 is numbered 22:2-32. [^b]: Psalm 22:2 Or _night, and am not silent_ [^c]: Psalm 22:3 Or _Yet you are holy, / enthroned on the praises of Israel_ [^d]: Psalm 22:15 Probable reading of the original Hebrew text; Masoretic Text _strength_ [^e]: Psalm 22:16 Dead Sea Scrolls and some manuscripts of the Masoretic Text, Septuagint and Syriac; most manuscripts of the Masoretic Text _me, / like a lion_ [^f]: Psalm 22:25 Hebrew _him_
