---
Aliases: [Psalms 32]
previous: ['Ps 31']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 33']
---
# Psalms 32

***




















###### 1 









Blessed is the one whose transgressions are forgiven, whose sins are covered. 



















###### 2 









Blessed is the one whose sin the LORD does not count against them and in whose spirit is no deceit. 



















###### 3 









When I kept silent, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long. 



















###### 4 









For day and night your hand was heavy on me; my strength was sapped as in the heat of summer.[^b] 



















###### 5 









Then I acknowledged my sin to you and did not cover up my iniquity. I said, "I will confess my transgressions to the LORD." And you forgave the guilt of my sin. 



















###### 6 









Therefore let all the faithful pray to you while you may be found; surely the rising of the mighty waters will not reach them. 



















###### 7 









You are my hiding place; you will protect me from trouble and surround me with songs of deliverance. 



















###### 8 









I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go; I will counsel you with my loving eye on you. 



















###### 9 









Do not be like the horse or the mule, which have no understanding but must be controlled by bit and bridle or they will not come to you. 



















###### 10 









Many are the woes of the wicked, but the LORD's unfailing love surrounds the one who trusts in him. 



















###### 11 









Rejoice in the LORD and be glad, you righteous; sing, all you who are upright in heart! NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 32:1 Title: Probably a literary or musical term [^b]: Psalm 32:4 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here and at the end of verses 5 and 7.
