---
Aliases: [Psalms 30]
previous: ['Ps 29']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 31']
---
# Psalms 30

***




















###### 1 









I will exalt you, LORD, for you lifted me out of the depths and did not let my enemies gloat over me. 



















###### 2 









LORD my God, I called to you for help, and you healed me. 



















###### 3 









You, LORD, brought me up from the realm of the dead; you spared me from going down to the pit. 



















###### 4 









Sing the praises of the LORD, you his faithful people; praise his holy name. 



















###### 5 









For his anger lasts only a moment, but his favor lasts a lifetime; weeping may stay for the night, but rejoicing comes in the morning. 



















###### 6 









When I felt secure, I said, "I will never be shaken." 



















###### 7 









LORD, when you favored me, you made my royal mountain[^c] stand firm; but when you hid your face, I was dismayed. 



















###### 8 









To you, LORD, I called; to the Lord I cried for mercy: 



















###### 9 









"What is gained if I am silenced, if I go down to the pit? Will the dust praise you? Will it proclaim your faithfulness? 



















###### 10 









Hear, LORD, and be merciful to me; LORD, be my help." 



















###### 11 









You turned my wailing into dancing; you removed my sackcloth and clothed me with joy, 



















###### 12 









that my heart may sing your praises and not be silent. LORD my God, I will praise you forever. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 30:1 In Hebrew texts 30:1-12 is numbered 30:2-13. [^b]: Psalm 30:1 Title: Or _palace_ [^c]: Psalm 30:7 That is, Mount Zion
