---
Aliases: [Psalms 35]
previous: ['Ps 34']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 36']
---
# Psalms 35

***




















###### 1 









Contend, LORD, with those who contend with me; fight against those who fight against me. 



















###### 2 









Take up shield and armor; arise and come to my aid. 



















###### 3 









Brandish spear and javelin[^a] against those who pursue me. Say to me, "I am your salvation." 



















###### 4 









May those who seek my life be disgraced and put to shame; may those who plot my ruin be turned back in dismay. 



















###### 5 









May they be like chaff before the wind, with the angel of the LORD driving them away; 



















###### 6 









may their path be dark and slippery, with the angel of the LORD pursuing them. 



















###### 7 









Since they hid their net for me without cause and without cause dug a pit for me, 



















###### 8 









may ruin overtake them by surprise-- may the net they hid entangle them, may they fall into the pit, to their ruin. 



















###### 9 









Then my soul will rejoice in the LORD and delight in his salvation. 



















###### 10 









My whole being will exclaim, "Who is like you, LORD? You rescue the poor from those too strong for them, the poor and needy from those who rob them." 



















###### 11 









Ruthless witnesses come forward; they question me on things I know nothing about. 



















###### 12 









They repay me evil for good and leave me like one bereaved. 



















###### 13 









Yet when they were ill, I put on sackcloth and humbled myself with fasting. When my prayers returned to me unanswered, 



















###### 14 









I went about mourning as though for my friend or brother. I bowed my head in grief as though weeping for my mother. 



















###### 15 









But when I stumbled, they gathered in glee; assailants gathered against me without my knowledge. They slandered me without ceasing. 



















###### 16 









Like the ungodly they maliciously mocked;[^b] they gnashed their teeth at me. 



















###### 17 









How long, Lord, will you look on? Rescue me from their ravages, my precious life from these lions. 



















###### 18 









I will give you thanks in the great assembly; among the throngs I will praise you. 



















###### 19 









Do not let those gloat over me who are my enemies without cause; do not let those who hate me without reason maliciously wink the eye. 



















###### 20 









They do not speak peaceably, but devise false accusations against those who live quietly in the land. 



















###### 21 









They sneer at me and say, "Aha! Aha! With our own eyes we have seen it." 



















###### 22 









LORD, you have seen this; do not be silent. Do not be far from me, Lord. 



















###### 23 









Awake, and rise to my defense! Contend for me, my God and Lord. 



















###### 24 









Vindicate me in your righteousness, LORD my God; do not let them gloat over me. 



















###### 25 









Do not let them think, "Aha, just what we wanted!" or say, "We have swallowed him up." 



















###### 26 









May all who gloat over my distress be put to shame and confusion; may all who exalt themselves over me be clothed with shame and disgrace. 



















###### 27 









May those who delight in my vindication shout for joy and gladness; may they always say, "The LORD be exalted, who delights in the well-being of his servant." 



















###### 28 









My tongue will proclaim your righteousness, your praises all day long. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 35:3 Or _and block the way_ [^b]: Psalm 35:16 Septuagint; Hebrew may mean _Like an ungodly circle of mockers,_
