---
Aliases: [Psalms 36]
previous: ['Ps 35']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 37']
---
# Psalms 36

***




















###### 1 









I have a message from God in my heart concerning the sinfulness of the wicked:[^b] There is no fear of God before their eyes. 



















###### 2 









In their own eyes they flatter themselves too much to detect or hate their sin. 



















###### 3 









The words of their mouths are wicked and deceitful; they fail to act wisely or do good. 



















###### 4 









Even on their beds they plot evil; they commit themselves to a sinful course and do not reject what is wrong. 



















###### 5 









Your love, LORD, reaches to the heavens, your faithfulness to the skies. 



















###### 6 









Your righteousness is like the highest mountains, your justice like the great deep. You, LORD, preserve both people and animals. 



















###### 7 









How priceless is your unfailing love, O God! People take refuge in the shadow of your wings. 



















###### 8 









They feast on the abundance of your house; you give them drink from your river of delights. 



















###### 9 









For with you is the fountain of life; in your light we see light. 



















###### 10 









Continue your love to those who know you, your righteousness to the upright in heart. 



















###### 11 









May the foot of the proud not come against me, nor the hand of the wicked drive me away. 



















###### 12 









See how the evildoers lie fallen-- thrown down, not able to rise! NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 36:1 In Hebrew texts 36:1-12 is numbered 36:2-13. [^b]: Psalm 36:1 Or _A message from God: The transgression of the wicked / resides in their hearts._
