---
Aliases: [Psalms 33]
previous: ['Ps 32']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 34']
---
# Psalms 33

***




















###### 1 









Sing joyfully to the LORD, you righteous; it is fitting for the upright to praise him. 



















###### 2 









Praise the LORD with the harp; make music to him on the ten-stringed lyre. 



















###### 3 









Sing to him a new song; play skillfully, and shout for joy. 



















###### 4 









For the word of the LORD is right and true; he is faithful in all he does. 



















###### 5 









The LORD loves righteousness and justice; the earth is full of his unfailing love. 



















###### 6 









By the word of the LORD the heavens were made, their starry host by the breath of his mouth. 



















###### 7 









He gathers the waters of the sea into jars[^a]; he puts the deep into storehouses. 



















###### 8 









Let all the earth fear the LORD; let all the people of the world revere him. 



















###### 9 









For he spoke, and it came to be; he commanded, and it stood firm. 



















###### 10 









The LORD foils the plans of the nations; he thwarts the purposes of the peoples. 



















###### 11 









But the plans of the LORD stand firm forever, the purposes of his heart through all generations. 



















###### 12 









Blessed is the nation whose God is the LORD, the people he chose for his inheritance. 



















###### 13 









From heaven the LORD looks down and sees all mankind; 



















###### 14 









from his dwelling place he watches all who live on earth-- 



















###### 15 









he who forms the hearts of all, who considers everything they do. 



















###### 16 









No king is saved by the size of his army; no warrior escapes by his great strength. 



















###### 17 









A horse is a vain hope for deliverance; despite all its great strength it cannot save. 



















###### 18 









But the eyes of the LORD are on those who fear him, on those whose hope is in his unfailing love, 



















###### 19 









to deliver them from death and keep them alive in famine. 



















###### 20 









We wait in hope for the LORD; he is our help and our shield. 



















###### 21 









In him our hearts rejoice, for we trust in his holy name. 



















###### 22 









May your unfailing love be with us, LORD, even as we put our hope in you. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 33:7 Or _sea as into a heap_
