---
Aliases: [Psalms 37]
previous: ['Ps 36']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 38']
---
# Psalms 37

***




















###### 1 









Do not fret because of those who are evil or be envious of those who do wrong; 



















###### 2 









for like the grass they will soon wither, like green plants they will soon die away. 



















###### 3 









Trust in the LORD and do good; dwell in the land and enjoy safe pasture. 



















###### 4 









Take delight in the LORD, and he will give you the desires of your heart. 



















###### 5 









Commit your way to the LORD; trust in him and he will do this: 



















###### 6 









He will make your righteous reward shine like the dawn, your vindication like the noonday sun. 



















###### 7 









Be still before the LORD and wait patiently for him; do not fret when people succeed in their ways, when they carry out their wicked schemes. 



















###### 8 









Refrain from anger and turn from wrath; do not fret--it leads only to evil. 



















###### 9 









For those who are evil will be destroyed, but those who hope in the LORD will inherit the land. 



















###### 10 









A little while, and the wicked will be no more; though you look for them, they will not be found. 



















###### 11 









But the meek will inherit the land and enjoy peace and prosperity. 



















###### 12 









The wicked plot against the righteous and gnash their teeth at them; 



















###### 13 









but the Lord laughs at the wicked, for he knows their day is coming. 



















###### 14 









The wicked draw the sword and bend the bow to bring down the poor and needy, to slay those whose ways are upright. 



















###### 15 









But their swords will pierce their own hearts, and their bows will be broken. 



















###### 16 









Better the little that the righteous have than the wealth of many wicked; 



















###### 17 









for the power of the wicked will be broken, but the LORD upholds the righteous. 



















###### 18 









The blameless spend their days under the LORD's care, and their inheritance will endure forever. 



















###### 19 









In times of disaster they will not wither; in days of famine they will enjoy plenty. 



















###### 20 









But the wicked will perish: Though the LORD's enemies are like the flowers of the field, they will be consumed, they will go up in smoke. 



















###### 21 









The wicked borrow and do not repay, but the righteous give generously; 



















###### 22 









those the LORD blesses will inherit the land, but those he curses will be destroyed. 



















###### 23 









The LORD makes firm the steps of the one who delights in him; 



















###### 24 









though he may stumble, he will not fall, for the LORD upholds him with his hand. 



















###### 25 









I was young and now I am old, yet I have never seen the righteous forsaken or their children begging bread. 



















###### 26 









They are always generous and lend freely; their children will be a blessing.[^b] 



















###### 27 









Turn from evil and do good; then you will dwell in the land forever. 



















###### 28 









For the LORD loves the just and will not forsake his faithful ones. Wrongdoers will be completely destroyed[^c]; the offspring of the wicked will perish. 



















###### 29 









The righteous will inherit the land and dwell in it forever. 



















###### 30 









The mouths of the righteous utter wisdom, and their tongues speak what is just. 



















###### 31 









The law of their God is in their hearts; their feet do not slip. 



















###### 32 









The wicked lie in wait for the righteous, intent on putting them to death; 



















###### 33 









but the LORD will not leave them in the power of the wicked or let them be condemned when brought to trial. 



















###### 34 









Hope in the LORD and keep his way. He will exalt you to inherit the land; when the wicked are destroyed, you will see it. 



















###### 35 









I have seen a wicked and ruthless man flourishing like a luxuriant native tree, 



















###### 36 









but he soon passed away and was no more; though I looked for him, he could not be found. 



















###### 37 









Consider the blameless, observe the upright; a future awaits those who seek peace.[^d] 



















###### 38 









But all sinners will be destroyed; there will be no future[^e] for the wicked. 



















###### 39 









The salvation of the righteous comes from the LORD; he is their stronghold in time of trouble. 



















###### 40 









The LORD helps them and delivers them; he delivers them from the wicked and saves them, because they take refuge in him. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 37:1 This psalm is an acrostic poem, the stanzas of which begin with the successive letters of the Hebrew alphabet. [^b]: Psalm 37:26 Or _freely; / the names of their children will be used in blessings_ (see Gen. 48:20); or _freely; / others will see that their children are blessed_ [^c]: Psalm 37:28 See Septuagint; Hebrew _They will be protected forever_ [^d]: Psalm 37:37 Or _upright; / those who seek peace will have posterity_ [^e]: Psalm 37:38 Or _posterity_
