---
Aliases: [Psalms 39]
previous: ['Ps 38']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 40']
---
# Psalms 39

***




















###### 1 









I said, "I will watch my ways and keep my tongue from sin; I will put a muzzle on my mouth while in the presence of the wicked." 



















###### 2 









So I remained utterly silent, not even saying anything good. But my anguish increased; 



















###### 3 









my heart grew hot within me. While I meditated, the fire burned; then I spoke with my tongue: 



















###### 4 









"Show me, LORD, my life's end and the number of my days; let me know how fleeting my life is. 



















###### 5 









You have made my days a mere handbreadth; the span of my years is as nothing before you. Everyone is but a breath, even those who seem secure.[^b] 



















###### 6 









"Surely everyone goes around like a mere phantom; in vain they rush about, heaping up wealth without knowing whose it will finally be. 



















###### 7 









"But now, Lord, what do I look for? My hope is in you. 



















###### 8 









Save me from all my transgressions; do not make me the scorn of fools. 



















###### 9 









I was silent; I would not open my mouth, for you are the one who has done this. 



















###### 10 









Remove your scourge from me; I am overcome by the blow of your hand. 



















###### 11 









When you rebuke and discipline anyone for their sin, you consume their wealth like a moth-- surely everyone is but a breath. 



















###### 12 









"Hear my prayer, LORD, listen to my cry for help; do not be deaf to my weeping. I dwell with you as a foreigner, a stranger, as all my ancestors were. 



















###### 13 









Look away from me, that I may enjoy life again before I depart and am no more." NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 39:1 In Hebrew texts 39:1-13 is numbered 39:2-14. [^b]: Psalm 39:5 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here and at the end of verse 11.
