---
Aliases: [Psalms 38]
previous: ['Ps 37']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 39']
---
# Psalms 38

***




















###### 1 









LORD, do not rebuke me in your anger or discipline me in your wrath. 



















###### 2 









Your arrows have pierced me, and your hand has come down on me. 



















###### 3 









Because of your wrath there is no health in my body; there is no soundness in my bones because of my sin. 



















###### 4 









My guilt has overwhelmed me like a burden too heavy to bear. 



















###### 5 









My wounds fester and are loathsome because of my sinful folly. 



















###### 6 









I am bowed down and brought very low; all day long I go about mourning. 



















###### 7 









My back is filled with searing pain; there is no health in my body. 



















###### 8 









I am feeble and utterly crushed; I groan in anguish of heart. 



















###### 9 









All my longings lie open before you, Lord; my sighing is not hidden from you. 



















###### 10 









My heart pounds, my strength fails me; even the light has gone from my eyes. 



















###### 11 









My friends and companions avoid me because of my wounds; my neighbors stay far away. 



















###### 12 









Those who want to kill me set their traps, those who would harm me talk of my ruin; all day long they scheme and lie. 



















###### 13 









I am like the deaf, who cannot hear, like the mute, who cannot speak; 



















###### 14 









I have become like one who does not hear, whose mouth can offer no reply. 



















###### 15 









LORD, I wait for you; you will answer, Lord my God. 



















###### 16 









For I said, "Do not let them gloat or exalt themselves over me when my feet slip." 



















###### 17 









For I am about to fall, and my pain is ever with me. 



















###### 18 









I confess my iniquity; I am troubled by my sin. 



















###### 19 









Many have become my enemies without cause[^b]; those who hate me without reason are numerous. 



















###### 20 









Those who repay my good with evil lodge accusations against me, though I seek only to do what is good. 



















###### 21 









LORD, do not forsake me; do not be far from me, my God. 



















###### 22 









Come quickly to help me, my Lord and my Savior. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 38:1 In Hebrew texts 38:1-22 is numbered 38:2-23. [^b]: Psalm 38:19 One Dead Sea Scrolls manuscript; Masoretic Text _my vigorous enemies_
