---
Aliases: [Psalms 34]
previous: ['Ps 33']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 35']
---
# Psalms 34

***




















###### 1 









I will extol the LORD at all times; his praise will always be on my lips. 



















###### 2 









I will glory in the LORD; let the afflicted hear and rejoice. 



















###### 3 









Glorify the LORD with me; let us exalt his name together. 



















###### 4 









I sought the LORD, and he answered me; he delivered me from all my fears. 



















###### 5 









Those who look to him are radiant; their faces are never covered with shame. 



















###### 6 









This poor man called, and the LORD heard him; he saved him out of all his troubles. 



















###### 7 









The angel of the LORD encamps around those who fear him, and he delivers them. 



















###### 8 









Taste and see that the LORD is good; blessed is the one who takes refuge in him. 



















###### 9 









Fear the LORD, you his holy people, for those who fear him lack nothing. 



















###### 10 









The lions may grow weak and hungry, but those who seek the LORD lack no good thing. 



















###### 11 









Come, my children, listen to me; I will teach you the fear of the LORD. 



















###### 12 









Whoever of you loves life and desires to see many good days, 



















###### 13 









keep your tongue from evil and your lips from telling lies. 



















###### 14 









Turn from evil and do good; seek peace and pursue it. 



















###### 15 









The eyes of the LORD are on the righteous, and his ears are attentive to their cry; 



















###### 16 









but the face of the LORD is against those who do evil, to blot out their name from the earth. 



















###### 17 









The righteous cry out, and the LORD hears them; he delivers them from all their troubles. 



















###### 18 









The LORD is close to the brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in spirit. 



















###### 19 









The righteous person may have many troubles, but the LORD delivers him from them all; 



















###### 20 









he protects all his bones, not one of them will be broken. 



















###### 21 









Evil will slay the wicked; the foes of the righteous will be condemned. 



















###### 22 









The LORD will rescue his servants; no one who takes refuge in him will be condemned. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 34:1 This psalm is an acrostic poem, the verses of which begin with the successive letters of the Hebrew alphabet. [^b]: Psalm 34:1 In Hebrew texts 34:1-22 is numbered 34:2-23.
