---
Aliases: [Psalms 40]
previous: ['Ps 39']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 41']
---
# Psalms 40

***




















###### 1 









I waited patiently for the LORD; he turned to me and heard my cry. 



















###### 2 









He lifted me out of the slimy pit, out of the mud and mire; he set my feet on a rock and gave me a firm place to stand. 



















###### 3 









He put a new song in my mouth, a hymn of praise to our God. Many will see and fear the LORD and put their trust in him. 



















###### 4 









Blessed is the one who trusts in the LORD, who does not look to the proud, to those who turn aside to false gods.[^b] 



















###### 5 









Many, LORD my God, are the wonders you have done, the things you planned for us. None can compare with you; were I to speak and tell of your deeds, they would be too many to declare. 



















###### 6 









Sacrifice and offering you did not desire-- but my ears you have opened[^c]-- burnt offerings and sin offerings[^d] you did not require. 



















###### 7 









Then I said, "Here I am, I have come-- it is written about me in the scroll.[^e] 



















###### 8 









I desire to do your will, my God; your law is within my heart." 



















###### 9 









I proclaim your saving acts in the great assembly; I do not seal my lips, LORD, as you know. 



















###### 10 









I do not hide your righteousness in my heart; I speak of your faithfulness and your saving help. I do not conceal your love and your faithfulness from the great assembly. 



















###### 11 









Do not withhold your mercy from me, LORD; may your love and faithfulness always protect me. 



















###### 12 









For troubles without number surround me; my sins have overtaken me, and I cannot see. They are more than the hairs of my head, and my heart fails within me. 



















###### 13 









Be pleased to save me, LORD; come quickly, LORD, to help me. 



















###### 14 









May all who want to take my life be put to shame and confusion; may all who desire my ruin be turned back in disgrace. 



















###### 15 









May those who say to me, "Aha! Aha!" be appalled at their own shame. 



















###### 16 









But may all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you; may those who long for your saving help always say, "The LORD is great!" 



















###### 17 









But as for me, I am poor and needy; may the Lord think of me. You are my help and my deliverer; you are my God, do not delay. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 40:1 In Hebrew texts 40:1-17 is numbered 40:2-18. [^b]: Psalm 40:4 Or _to lies_ [^c]: Psalm 40:6 Hebrew; some Septuagint manuscripts _but a body you have prepared for me_ [^d]: Psalm 40:6 Or _purification offerings_ [^e]: Psalm 40:7 Or _come / with the scroll written for me_
