---
Aliases: [Psalms 43]
previous: ['Ps 42']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 44']
---
# Psalms 43

***




















###### 1 









Vindicate me, my God, and plead my cause against an unfaithful nation. Rescue me from those who are deceitful and wicked. 



















###### 2 









You are God my stronghold. Why have you rejected me? Why must I go about mourning, oppressed by the enemy? 



















###### 3 









Send me your light and your faithful care, let them lead me; let them bring me to your holy mountain, to the place where you dwell. 



















###### 4 









Then I will go to the altar of God, to God, my joy and my delight. I will praise you with the lyre, O God, my God. 



















###### 5 









Why, my soul, are you downcast? Why so disturbed within me? Put your hope in God, for I will yet praise him, my Savior and my God. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 43:1 In many Hebrew manuscripts Psalms 42 and 43 constitute one psalm.
