---
Aliases: [Psalms 48]
previous: ['Ps 47']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 49']
---
# Psalms 48

***




















###### 1 









Great is the LORD, and most worthy of praise, in the city of our God, his holy mountain. 



















###### 2 









Beautiful in its loftiness, the joy of the whole earth, like the heights of Zaphon[^b] is Mount Zion, the city of the Great King. 



















###### 3 









God is in her citadels; he has shown himself to be her fortress. 



















###### 4 









When the kings joined forces, when they advanced together, 



















###### 5 









they saw her and were astounded; they fled in terror. 



















###### 6 









Trembling seized them there, pain like that of a woman in labor. 



















###### 7 









You destroyed them like ships of Tarshish shattered by an east wind. 



















###### 8 









As we have heard, so we have seen in the city of the LORD Almighty, in the city of our God: God makes her secure forever.[^c] 



















###### 9 









Within your temple, O God, we meditate on your unfailing love. 



















###### 10 









Like your name, O God, your praise reaches to the ends of the earth; your right hand is filled with righteousness. 



















###### 11 









Mount Zion rejoices, the villages of Judah are glad because of your judgments. 



















###### 12 









Walk about Zion, go around her, count her towers, 



















###### 13 









consider well her ramparts, view her citadels, that you may tell of them to the next generation. 



















###### 14 









For this God is our God for ever and ever; he will be our guide even to the end. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 48:1 In Hebrew texts 48:1-14 is numbered 48:2-15. [^b]: Psalm 48:2 _Zaphon_ was the most sacred mountain of the Canaanites. [^c]: Psalm 48:8 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here.
