---
Aliases: [Psalms 44]
previous: ['Ps 43']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 45']
---
# Psalms 44

***




















###### 1 









We have heard it with our ears, O God; our ancestors have told us what you did in their days, in days long ago. 



















###### 2 









With your hand you drove out the nations and planted our ancestors; you crushed the peoples and made our ancestors flourish. 



















###### 3 









It was not by their sword that they won the land, nor did their arm bring them victory; it was your right hand, your arm, and the light of your face, for you loved them. 



















###### 4 









You are my King and my God, who decrees[^c] victories for Jacob. 



















###### 5 









Through you we push back our enemies; through your name we trample our foes. 



















###### 6 









I put no trust in my bow, my sword does not bring me victory; 



















###### 7 









but you give us victory over our enemies, you put our adversaries to shame. 



















###### 8 









In God we make our boast all day long, and we will praise your name forever.[^d] 



















###### 9 









But now you have rejected and humbled us; you no longer go out with our armies. 



















###### 10 









You made us retreat before the enemy, and our adversaries have plundered us. 



















###### 11 









You gave us up to be devoured like sheep and have scattered us among the nations. 



















###### 12 









You sold your people for a pittance, gaining nothing from their sale. 



















###### 13 









You have made us a reproach to our neighbors, the scorn and derision of those around us. 



















###### 14 









You have made us a byword among the nations; the peoples shake their heads at us. 



















###### 15 









I live in disgrace all day long, and my face is covered with shame 



















###### 16 









at the taunts of those who reproach and revile me, because of the enemy, who is bent on revenge. 



















###### 17 









All this came upon us, though we had not forgotten you; we had not been false to your covenant. 



















###### 18 









Our hearts had not turned back; our feet had not strayed from your path. 



















###### 19 









But you crushed us and made us a haunt for jackals; you covered us over with deep darkness. 



















###### 20 









If we had forgotten the name of our God or spread out our hands to a foreign god, 



















###### 21 









would not God have discovered it, since he knows the secrets of the heart? 



















###### 22 









Yet for your sake we face death all day long; we are considered as sheep to be slaughtered. 



















###### 23 









Awake, Lord! Why do you sleep? Rouse yourself! Do not reject us forever. 



















###### 24 









Why do you hide your face and forget our misery and oppression? 



















###### 25 









We are brought down to the dust; our bodies cling to the ground. 



















###### 26 









Rise up and help us; rescue us because of your unfailing love. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 44:1 In Hebrew texts 44:1-26 is numbered 44:2-27. [^b]: Psalm 44:1 Title: Probably a literary or musical term [^c]: Psalm 44:4 Septuagint, Aquila and Syriac; Hebrew _King, O God; / command_ [^d]: Psalm 44:8 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here.
