---
Aliases: [Psalms 45]
previous: ['Ps 44']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 46']
---
# Psalms 45

***




















###### 1 









My heart is stirred by a noble theme as I recite my verses for the king; my tongue is the pen of a skillful writer. 



















###### 2 









You are the most excellent of men and your lips have been anointed with grace, since God has blessed you forever. 



















###### 3 









Gird your sword on your side, you mighty one; clothe yourself with splendor and majesty. 



















###### 4 









In your majesty ride forth victoriously in the cause of truth, humility and justice; let your right hand achieve awesome deeds. 



















###### 5 









Let your sharp arrows pierce the hearts of the king's enemies; let the nations fall beneath your feet. 



















###### 6 









Your throne, O God,[^c] will last for ever and ever; a scepter of justice will be the scepter of your kingdom. 



















###### 7 









You love righteousness and hate wickedness; therefore God, your God, has set you above your companions by anointing you with the oil of joy. 



















###### 8 









All your robes are fragrant with myrrh and aloes and cassia; from palaces adorned with ivory the music of the strings makes you glad. 



















###### 9 









Daughters of kings are among your honored women; at your right hand is the royal bride in gold of Ophir. 



















###### 10 









Listen, daughter, and pay careful attention: Forget your people and your father's house. 



















###### 11 









Let the king be enthralled by your beauty; honor him, for he is your lord. 



















###### 12 









The city of Tyre will come with a gift,[^d] people of wealth will seek your favor. 



















###### 13 









All glorious is the princess within her chamber; her gown is interwoven with gold. 



















###### 14 









In embroidered garments she is led to the king; her virgin companions follow her-- those brought to be with her. 



















###### 15 









Led in with joy and gladness, they enter the palace of the king. 



















###### 16 









Your sons will take the place of your fathers; you will make them princes throughout the land. 



















###### 17 









I will perpetuate your memory through all generations; therefore the nations will praise you for ever and ever. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 45:1 In Hebrew texts 45:1-17 is numbered 45:2-18. [^b]: Psalm 45:1 Title: Probably a literary or musical term [^c]: Psalm 45:6 Here the king is addressed as God’s representative. [^d]: Psalm 45:12 Or _A Tyrian robe is among the gifts_
