---
Aliases: [Psalms 41]
previous: ['Ps 40']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 42']
---
# Psalms 41

***




















###### 1 









Blessed are those who have regard for the weak; the LORD delivers them in times of trouble. 



















###### 2 









The LORD protects and preserves them-- they are counted among the blessed in the land-- he does not give them over to the desire of their foes. 



















###### 3 









The LORD sustains them on their sickbed and restores them from their bed of illness. 



















###### 4 









I said, "Have mercy on me, LORD; heal me, for I have sinned against you." 



















###### 5 









My enemies say of me in malice, "When will he die and his name perish?" 



















###### 6 









When one of them comes to see me, he speaks falsely, while his heart gathers slander; then he goes out and spreads it around. 



















###### 7 









All my enemies whisper together against me; they imagine the worst for me, saying, 



















###### 8 









"A vile disease has afflicted him; he will never get up from the place where he lies." 



















###### 9 









Even my close friend, someone I trusted, one who shared my bread, has turned[^b] against me. 



















###### 10 









But may you have mercy on me, LORD; raise me up, that I may repay them. 



















###### 11 









I know that you are pleased with me, for my enemy does not triumph over me. 



















###### 12 









Because of my integrity you uphold me and set me in your presence forever. 



















###### 13 









Praise be to the LORD, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting. Amen and Amen. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 41:1 In Hebrew texts 41:1-13 is numbered 41:2-14. [^b]: Psalm 41:9 Hebrew _has lifted up his heel_
