---
Aliases: [Psalms 47]
previous: ['Ps 46']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 48']
---
# Psalms 47

***




















###### 1 









Clap your hands, all you nations; shout to God with cries of joy. 



















###### 2 









For the LORD Most High is awesome, the great King over all the earth. 



















###### 3 









He subdued nations under us, peoples under our feet. 



















###### 4 









He chose our inheritance for us, the pride of Jacob, whom he loved.[^b] 



















###### 5 









God has ascended amid shouts of joy, the LORD amid the sounding of trumpets. 



















###### 6 









Sing praises to God, sing praises; sing praises to our King, sing praises. 



















###### 7 









For God is the King of all the earth; sing to him a psalm of praise. 



















###### 8 









God reigns over the nations; God is seated on his holy throne. 



















###### 9 









The nobles of the nations assemble as the people of the God of Abraham, for the kings[^c] of the earth belong to God; he is greatly exalted. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 47:1 In Hebrew texts 47:1-9 is numbered 47:2-10. [^b]: Psalm 47:4 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here. [^c]: Psalm 47:9 Or _shields_
