---
Aliases: [Psalms 49]
previous: ['Ps 48']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 50']
---
# Psalms 49

***




















###### 1 









Hear this, all you peoples; listen, all who live in this world, 



















###### 2 









both low and high, rich and poor alike: 



















###### 3 









My mouth will speak words of wisdom; the meditation of my heart will give you understanding. 



















###### 4 









I will turn my ear to a proverb; with the harp I will expound my riddle: 



















###### 5 









Why should I fear when evil days come, when wicked deceivers surround me-- 



















###### 6 









those who trust in their wealth and boast of their great riches? 



















###### 7 









No one can redeem the life of another or give to God a ransom for them-- 



















###### 8 









the ransom for a life is costly, no payment is ever enough-- 



















###### 9 









so that they should live on forever and not see decay. 



















###### 10 









For all can see that the wise die, that the foolish and the senseless also perish, leaving their wealth to others. 



















###### 11 









Their tombs will remain their houses[^b] forever, their dwellings for endless generations, though they had[^c] named lands after themselves. 



















###### 12 









People, despite their wealth, do not endure; they are like the beasts that perish. 



















###### 13 









This is the fate of those who trust in themselves, and of their followers, who approve their sayings.[^d] 



















###### 14 









They are like sheep and are destined to die; death will be their shepherd (but the upright will prevail over them in the morning). Their forms will decay in the grave, far from their princely mansions. 



















###### 15 









But God will redeem me from the realm of the dead; he will surely take me to himself. 



















###### 16 









Do not be overawed when others grow rich, when the splendor of their houses increases; 



















###### 17 









for they will take nothing with them when they die, their splendor will not descend with them. 



















###### 18 









Though while they live they count themselves blessed-- and people praise you when you prosper-- 



















###### 19 









they will join those who have gone before them, who will never again see the light of life. 



















###### 20 









People who have wealth but lack understanding are like the beasts that perish. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 49:1 In Hebrew texts 49:1-20 is numbered 49:2-21. [^b]: Psalm 49:11 Septuagint and Syriac; Hebrew _In their thoughts their houses will remain_ [^c]: Psalm 49:11 Or _generations, / for they have_ [^d]: Psalm 49:13 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here and at the end of verse 15.
