---
Aliases: [Psalms 46]
previous: ['Ps 45']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 47']
---
# Psalms 46

***




















###### 1 









God is our refuge and strength, an ever-present help in trouble. 



















###### 2 









Therefore we will not fear, though the earth give way and the mountains fall into the heart of the sea, 



















###### 3 









though its waters roar and foam and the mountains quake with their surging.[^c] 



















###### 4 









There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God, the holy place where the Most High dwells. 



















###### 5 









God is within her, she will not fall; God will help her at break of day. 



















###### 6 









Nations are in uproar, kingdoms fall; he lifts his voice, the earth melts. 



















###### 7 









The LORD Almighty is with us; the God of Jacob is our fortress. 



















###### 8 









Come and see what the LORD has done, the desolations he has brought on the earth. 



















###### 9 









He makes wars cease to the ends of the earth. He breaks the bow and shatters the spear; he burns the shields[^d] with fire. 



















###### 10 









He says, "Be still, and know that I am God; I will be exalted among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth." 



















###### 11 









The LORD Almighty is with us; the God of Jacob is our fortress. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 46:1 In Hebrew texts 46:1-11 is numbered 46:2-12. [^b]: Psalm 46:1 Title: Probably a musical term [^c]: Psalm 46:3 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here and at the end of verses 7 and 11. [^d]: Psalm 46:9 Or _chariots_
