---
Aliases: [Psalms 42]
previous: ['Ps 41']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 43']
---
# Psalms 42

***




















###### 1 









As the deer pants for streams of water, so my soul pants for you, my God. 



















###### 2 









My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When can I go and meet with God? 



















###### 3 









My tears have been my food day and night, while people say to me all day long, "Where is your God?" 



















###### 4 









These things I remember as I pour out my soul: how I used to go to the house of God under the protection of the Mighty One[^d] with shouts of joy and praise among the festive throng. 



















###### 5 









Why, my soul, are you downcast? Why so disturbed within me? Put your hope in God, for I will yet praise him, my Savior and my God. 



















###### 6 









My soul is downcast within me; therefore I will remember you from the land of the Jordan, the heights of Hermon--from Mount Mizar. 



















###### 7 









Deep calls to deep in the roar of your waterfalls; all your waves and breakers have swept over me. 



















###### 8 









By day the LORD directs his love, at night his song is with me-- a prayer to the God of my life. 



















###### 9 









I say to God my Rock, "Why have you forgotten me? Why must I go about mourning, oppressed by the enemy?" 



















###### 10 









My bones suffer mortal agony as my foes taunt me, saying to me all day long, "Where is your God?" 



















###### 11 









Why, my soul, are you downcast? Why so disturbed within me? Put your hope in God, for I will yet praise him, my Savior and my God. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 42:1 In many Hebrew manuscripts Psalms 42 and 43 constitute one psalm. [^b]: Psalm 42:1 In Hebrew texts 42:1-11 is numbered 42:2-12. [^c]: Psalm 42:1 Title: Probably a literary or musical term [^d]: Psalm 42:4 See Septuagint and Syriac; the meaning of the Hebrew for this line is uncertain.
