---
Aliases: [Psalms 51]
previous: ['Ps 50']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 52']
---
# Psalms 51

***




















###### 1 









Have mercy on me, O God, according to your unfailing love; according to your great compassion blot out my transgressions. 



















###### 2 









Wash away all my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. 



















###### 3 









For I know my transgressions, and my sin is always before me. 



















###### 4 









Against you, you only, have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight; so you are right in your verdict and justified when you judge. 



















###### 5 









Surely I was sinful at birth, sinful from the time my mother conceived me. 



















###### 6 









Yet you desired faithfulness even in the womb; you taught me wisdom in that secret place. 



















###### 7 









Cleanse me with hyssop, and I will be clean; wash me, and I will be whiter than snow. 



















###### 8 









Let me hear joy and gladness; let the bones you have crushed rejoice. 



















###### 9 









Hide your face from my sins and blot out all my iniquity. 



















###### 10 









Create in me a pure heart, O God, and renew a steadfast spirit within me. 



















###### 11 









Do not cast me from your presence or take your Holy Spirit from me. 



















###### 12 









Restore to me the joy of your salvation and grant me a willing spirit, to sustain me. 



















###### 13 









Then I will teach transgressors your ways, so that sinners will turn back to you. 



















###### 14 









Deliver me from the guilt of bloodshed, O God, you who are God my Savior, and my tongue will sing of your righteousness. 



















###### 15 









Open my lips, Lord, and my mouth will declare your praise. 



















###### 16 









You do not delight in sacrifice, or I would bring it; you do not take pleasure in burnt offerings. 



















###### 17 









My sacrifice, O God, is[^b] a broken spirit; a broken and contrite heart you, God, will not despise. 



















###### 18 









May it please you to prosper Zion, to build up the walls of Jerusalem. 



















###### 19 









Then you will delight in the sacrifices of the righteous, in burnt offerings offered whole; then bulls will be offered on your altar. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 51:1 In Hebrew texts 51:1-19 is numbered 51:3-21. [^b]: Psalm 51:17 Or _The sacrifices of God are_
