---
Aliases: [Psalms 54]
previous: ['Ps 53']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 55']
---
# Psalms 54

***




















###### 1 









Save me, O God, by your name; vindicate me by your might. 



















###### 2 









Hear my prayer, O God; listen to the words of my mouth. 



















###### 3 









Arrogant foes are attacking me; ruthless people are trying to kill me-- people without regard for God.[^c] 



















###### 4 









Surely God is my help; the Lord is the one who sustains me. 



















###### 5 









Let evil recoil on those who slander me; in your faithfulness destroy them. 



















###### 6 









I will sacrifice a freewill offering to you; I will praise your name, LORD, for it is good. 



















###### 7 









You have delivered me from all my troubles, and my eyes have looked in triumph on my foes. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 54:1 In Hebrew texts 54:1-7 is numbered 54:3-9. [^b]: Psalm 54:1 Title: Probably a literary or musical term [^c]: Psalm 54:3 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here.
