---
Aliases: [Psalms 50]
previous: ['Ps 49']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 51']
---
# Psalms 50

***




















###### 1 









The Mighty One, God, the LORD, speaks and summons the earth from the rising of the sun to where it sets. 



















###### 2 









From Zion, perfect in beauty, God shines forth. 



















###### 3 









Our God comes and will not be silent; a fire devours before him, and around him a tempest rages. 



















###### 4 









He summons the heavens above, and the earth, that he may judge his people: 



















###### 5 









"Gather to me this consecrated people, who made a covenant with me by sacrifice." 



















###### 6 









And the heavens proclaim his righteousness, for he is a God of justice.[^a][^b] 



















###### 7 









"Listen, my people, and I will speak; I will testify against you, Israel: I am God, your God. 



















###### 8 









I bring no charges against you concerning your sacrifices or concerning your burnt offerings, which are ever before me. 



















###### 9 









I have no need of a bull from your stall or of goats from your pens, 



















###### 10 









for every animal of the forest is mine, and the cattle on a thousand hills. 



















###### 11 









I know every bird in the mountains, and the insects in the fields are mine. 



















###### 12 









If I were hungry I would not tell you, for the world is mine, and all that is in it. 



















###### 13 









Do I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats? 



















###### 14 









"Sacrifice thank offerings to God, fulfill your vows to the Most High, 



















###### 15 









and call on me in the day of trouble; I will deliver you, and you will honor me." 



















###### 16 









But to the wicked person, God says: "What right have you to recite my laws or take my covenant on your lips? 



















###### 17 









You hate my instruction and cast my words behind you. 



















###### 18 









When you see a thief, you join with him; you throw in your lot with adulterers. 



















###### 19 









You use your mouth for evil and harness your tongue to deceit. 



















###### 20 









You sit and testify against your brother and slander your own mother's son. 



















###### 21 









When you did these things and I kept silent, you thought I was exactly[^c] like you. But I now arraign you and set my accusations before you. 



















###### 22 









"Consider this, you who forget God, or I will tear you to pieces, with no one to rescue you: 



















###### 23 









Those who sacrifice thank offerings honor me, and to the blameless[^d] I will show my salvation." NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 50:6 With a different word division of the Hebrew; Masoretic Text _for God himself is judge_ [^b]: Psalm 50:6 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here. [^c]: Psalm 50:21 Or _thought the ‘I am’ was_ [^d]: Psalm 50:23 Probable reading of the original Hebrew text; the meaning of the Masoretic Text for this phrase is uncertain.
