---
Aliases: [Psalms 56]
previous: ['Ps 55']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 57']
---
# Psalms 56

***




















###### 1 









Be merciful to me, my God, for my enemies are in hot pursuit; all day long they press their attack. 



















###### 2 









My adversaries pursue me all day long; in their pride many are attacking me. 



















###### 3 









When I am afraid, I put my trust in you. 



















###### 4 









In God, whose word I praise-- in God I trust and am not afraid. What can mere mortals do to me? 



















###### 5 









All day long they twist my words; all their schemes are for my ruin. 



















###### 6 









They conspire, they lurk, they watch my steps, hoping to take my life. 



















###### 7 









Because of their wickedness do not[^c] let them escape; in your anger, God, bring the nations down. 



















###### 8 









Record my misery; list my tears on your scroll[^d]-- are they not in your record? 



















###### 9 









Then my enemies will turn back when I call for help. By this I will know that God is for me. 



















###### 10 









In God, whose word I praise, in the LORD, whose word I praise-- 



















###### 11 









in God I trust and am not afraid. What can man do to me? 



















###### 12 









I am under vows to you, my God; I will present my thank offerings to you. 



















###### 13 









For you have delivered me from death and my feet from stumbling, that I may walk before God in the light of life. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 56:1 In Hebrew texts 56:1-13 is numbered 56:2-14. [^b]: Psalm 56:1 Title: Probably a literary or musical term [^c]: Psalm 56:7 Probable reading of the original Hebrew text; Masoretic Text does not have _do not_. [^d]: Psalm 56:8 Or _misery; / put my tears in your wineskin_
