---
Aliases: [Psalms 57]
previous: ['Ps 56']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 58']
---
# Psalms 57

***




















###### 1 









Have mercy on me, my God, have mercy on me, for in you I take refuge. I will take refuge in the shadow of your wings until the disaster has passed. 



















###### 2 









I cry out to God Most High, to God, who vindicates me. 



















###### 3 









He sends from heaven and saves me, rebuking those who hotly pursue me--[^c] God sends forth his love and his faithfulness. 



















###### 4 









I am in the midst of lions; I am forced to dwell among ravenous beasts-- men whose teeth are spears and arrows, whose tongues are sharp swords. 



















###### 5 









Be exalted, O God, above the heavens; let your glory be over all the earth. 



















###### 6 









They spread a net for my feet-- I was bowed down in distress. They dug a pit in my path-- but they have fallen into it themselves. 



















###### 7 









My heart, O God, is steadfast, my heart is steadfast; I will sing and make music. 



















###### 8 









Awake, my soul! Awake, harp and lyre! I will awaken the dawn. 



















###### 9 









I will praise you, Lord, among the nations; I will sing of you among the peoples. 



















###### 10 









For great is your love, reaching to the heavens; your faithfulness reaches to the skies. 



















###### 11 









Be exalted, O God, above the heavens; let your glory be over all the earth. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 57:1 In Hebrew texts 57:1-11 is numbered 57:2-12. [^b]: Psalm 57:1 Title: Probably a literary or musical term [^c]: Psalm 57:3 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here and at the end of verse 6.
