---
Aliases: [Psalms 55]
previous: ['Ps 54']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 56']
---
# Psalms 55

***




















###### 1 









Listen to my prayer, O God, do not ignore my plea; 



















###### 2 









hear me and answer me. My thoughts trouble me and I am distraught 



















###### 3 









because of what my enemy is saying, because of the threats of the wicked; for they bring down suffering on me and assail me in their anger. 



















###### 4 









My heart is in anguish within me; the terrors of death have fallen on me. 



















###### 5 









Fear and trembling have beset me; horror has overwhelmed me. 



















###### 6 









I said, "Oh, that I had the wings of a dove! I would fly away and be at rest. 



















###### 7 









I would flee far away and stay in the desert;[^c] 



















###### 8 









I would hurry to my place of shelter, far from the tempest and storm." 



















###### 9 









Lord, confuse the wicked, confound their words, for I see violence and strife in the city. 



















###### 10 









Day and night they prowl about on its walls; malice and abuse are within it. 



















###### 11 









Destructive forces are at work in the city; threats and lies never leave its streets. 



















###### 12 









If an enemy were insulting me, I could endure it; if a foe were rising against me, I could hide. 



















###### 13 









But it is you, a man like myself, my companion, my close friend, 



















###### 14 









with whom I once enjoyed sweet fellowship at the house of God, as we walked about among the worshipers. 



















###### 15 









Let death take my enemies by surprise; let them go down alive to the realm of the dead, for evil finds lodging among them. 



















###### 16 









As for me, I call to God, and the LORD saves me. 



















###### 17 









Evening, morning and noon I cry out in distress, and he hears my voice. 



















###### 18 









He rescues me unharmed from the battle waged against me, even though many oppose me. 



















###### 19 









God, who is enthroned from of old, who does not change-- he will hear them and humble them, because they have no fear of God. 



















###### 20 









My companion attacks his friends; he violates his covenant. 



















###### 21 









His talk is smooth as butter, yet war is in his heart; his words are more soothing than oil, yet they are drawn swords. 



















###### 22 









Cast your cares on the LORD and he will sustain you; he will never let the righteous be shaken. 



















###### 23 









But you, God, will bring down the wicked into the pit of decay; the bloodthirsty and deceitful will not live out half their days. But as for me, I trust in you. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 55:1 In Hebrew texts 55:1-23 is numbered 55:2-24. [^b]: Psalm 55:1 Title: Probably a literary or musical term [^c]: Psalm 55:7 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here and in the middle of verse 19.
