---
Aliases: [Psalms 52]
previous: ['Ps 51']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 53']
---
# Psalms 52

***




















###### 1 









Why do you boast of evil, you mighty hero? Why do you boast all day long, you who are a disgrace in the eyes of God? 



















###### 2 









You who practice deceit, your tongue plots destruction; it is like a sharpened razor. 



















###### 3 









You love evil rather than good, falsehood rather than speaking the truth.[^c] 



















###### 4 









You love every harmful word, you deceitful tongue! 



















###### 5 









Surely God will bring you down to everlasting ruin: He will snatch you up and pluck you from your tent; he will uproot you from the land of the living. 



















###### 6 









The righteous will see and fear; they will laugh at you, saying, 



















###### 7 









"Here now is the man who did not make God his stronghold but trusted in his great wealth and grew strong by destroying others!" 



















###### 8 









But I am like an olive tree flourishing in the house of God; I trust in God's unfailing love for ever and ever. 



















###### 9 









For what you have done I will always praise you in the presence of your faithful people. And I will hope in your name, for your name is good. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 52:1 In Hebrew texts 52:1-9 is numbered 52:3-11. [^b]: Psalm 52:1 Title: Probably a literary or musical term [^c]: Psalm 52:3 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here and at the end of verse 5.
