---
Aliases: [Psalms 59]
previous: ['Ps 58']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 60']
---
# Psalms 59

***




















###### 1 









Deliver me from my enemies, O God; be my fortress against those who are attacking me. 



















###### 2 









Deliver me from evildoers and save me from those who are after my blood. 



















###### 3 









See how they lie in wait for me! Fierce men conspire against me for no offense or sin of mine, LORD. 



















###### 4 









I have done no wrong, yet they are ready to attack me. Arise to help me; look on my plight! 



















###### 5 









You, LORD God Almighty, you who are the God of Israel, rouse yourself to punish all the nations; show no mercy to wicked traitors.[^c] 



















###### 6 









They return at evening, snarling like dogs, and prowl about the city. 



















###### 7 









See what they spew from their mouths-- the words from their lips are sharp as swords, and they think, "Who can hear us?" 



















###### 8 









But you laugh at them, LORD; you scoff at all those nations. 



















###### 9 









You are my strength, I watch for you; you, God, are my fortress, 



















###### 10 









my God on whom I can rely. God will go before me and will let me gloat over those who slander me. 



















###### 11 









But do not kill them, Lord our shield,[^d] or my people will forget. In your might uproot them and bring them down. 



















###### 12 









For the sins of their mouths, for the words of their lips, let them be caught in their pride. For the curses and lies they utter, 



















###### 13 









consume them in your wrath, consume them till they are no more. Then it will be known to the ends of the earth that God rules over Jacob. 



















###### 14 









They return at evening, snarling like dogs, and prowl about the city. 



















###### 15 









They wander about for food and howl if not satisfied. 



















###### 16 









But I will sing of your strength, in the morning I will sing of your love; for you are my fortress, my refuge in times of trouble. 



















###### 17 









You are my strength, I sing praise to you; you, God, are my fortress, my God on whom I can rely. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 59:1 In Hebrew texts 59:1-17 is numbered 59:2-18. [^b]: Psalm 59:1 Title: Probably a literary or musical term [^c]: Psalm 59:5 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here and at the end of verse 13. [^d]: Psalm 59:11 Or _sovereign_
