---
Aliases: [Psalms 53]
previous: ['Ps 52']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 54']
---
# Psalms 53

***




















###### 1 









The fool says in his heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt, and their ways are vile; there is no one who does good. 



















###### 2 









God looks down from heaven on all mankind to see if there are any who understand, any who seek God. 



















###### 3 









Everyone has turned away, all have become corrupt; there is no one who does good, not even one. 



















###### 4 









Do all these evildoers know nothing? They devour my people as though eating bread; they never call on God. 



















###### 5 









But there they are, overwhelmed with dread, where there was nothing to dread. God scattered the bones of those who attacked you; you put them to shame, for God despised them. 



















###### 6 









Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion! When God restores his people, let Jacob rejoice and Israel be glad! NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 53:1 In Hebrew texts 53:1-6 is numbered 53:2-7. [^b]: Psalm 53:1 Title: Probably a musical term [^c]: Psalm 53:1 Title: Probably a literary or musical term
