---
Aliases: [Psalms 58]
previous: ['Ps 57']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 59']
---
# Psalms 58

***




















###### 1 









Do you rulers indeed speak justly? Do you judge people with equity? 



















###### 2 









No, in your heart you devise injustice, and your hands mete out violence on the earth. 



















###### 3 









Even from birth the wicked go astray; from the womb they are wayward, spreading lies. 



















###### 4 









Their venom is like the venom of a snake, like that of a cobra that has stopped its ears, 



















###### 5 









that will not heed the tune of the charmer, however skillful the enchanter may be. 



















###### 6 









Break the teeth in their mouths, O God; LORD, tear out the fangs of those lions! 



















###### 7 









Let them vanish like water that flows away; when they draw the bow, let their arrows fall short. 



















###### 8 









May they be like a slug that melts away as it moves along, like a stillborn child that never sees the sun. 



















###### 9 









Before your pots can feel the heat of the thorns-- whether they be green or dry--the wicked will be swept away.[^c] 



















###### 10 









The righteous will be glad when they are avenged, when they dip their feet in the blood of the wicked. 



















###### 11 









Then people will say, "Surely the righteous still are rewarded; surely there is a God who judges the earth." NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 58:1 In Hebrew texts 58:1-11 is numbered 58:2-12. [^b]: Psalm 58:1 Title: Probably a literary or musical term [^c]: Psalm 58:9 The meaning of the Hebrew for this verse is uncertain.
