---
Aliases: [Psalms 69]
previous: ['Ps 68']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 70']
---
# Psalms 69

***




















###### 1 









Save me, O God, for the waters have come up to my neck. 



















###### 2 









I sink in the miry depths, where there is no foothold. I have come into the deep waters; the floods engulf me. 



















###### 3 









I am worn out calling for help; my throat is parched. My eyes fail, looking for my God. 



















###### 4 









Those who hate me without reason outnumber the hairs of my head; many are my enemies without cause, those who seek to destroy me. I am forced to restore what I did not steal. 



















###### 5 









You, God, know my folly; my guilt is not hidden from you. 



















###### 6 









Lord, the LORD Almighty, may those who hope in you not be disgraced because of me; God of Israel, may those who seek you not be put to shame because of me. 



















###### 7 









For I endure scorn for your sake, and shame covers my face. 



















###### 8 









I am a foreigner to my own family, a stranger to my own mother's children; 



















###### 9 









for zeal for your house consumes me, and the insults of those who insult you fall on me. 



















###### 10 









When I weep and fast, I must endure scorn; 



















###### 11 









when I put on sackcloth, people make sport of me. 



















###### 12 









Those who sit at the gate mock me, and I am the song of the drunkards. 



















###### 13 









But I pray to you, LORD, in the time of your favor; in your great love, O God, answer me with your sure salvation. 



















###### 14 









Rescue me from the mire, do not let me sink; deliver me from those who hate me, from the deep waters. 



















###### 15 









Do not let the floodwaters engulf me or the depths swallow me up or the pit close its mouth over me. 



















###### 16 









Answer me, LORD, out of the goodness of your love; in your great mercy turn to me. 



















###### 17 









Do not hide your face from your servant; answer me quickly, for I am in trouble. 



















###### 18 









Come near and rescue me; deliver me because of my foes. 



















###### 19 









You know how I am scorned, disgraced and shamed; all my enemies are before you. 



















###### 20 









Scorn has broken my heart and has left me helpless; I looked for sympathy, but there was none, for comforters, but I found none. 



















###### 21 









They put gall in my food and gave me vinegar for my thirst. 



















###### 22 









May the table set before them become a snare; may it become retribution and[^b] a trap. 



















###### 23 









May their eyes be darkened so they cannot see, and their backs be bent forever. 



















###### 24 









Pour out your wrath on them; let your fierce anger overtake them. 



















###### 25 









May their place be deserted; let there be no one to dwell in their tents. 



















###### 26 









For they persecute those you wound and talk about the pain of those you hurt. 



















###### 27 









Charge them with crime upon crime; do not let them share in your salvation. 



















###### 28 









May they be blotted out of the book of life and not be listed with the righteous. 



















###### 29 









But as for me, afflicted and in pain-- may your salvation, God, protect me. 



















###### 30 









I will praise God's name in song and glorify him with thanksgiving. 



















###### 31 









This will please the LORD more than an ox, more than a bull with its horns and hooves. 



















###### 32 









The poor will see and be glad-- you who seek God, may your hearts live! 



















###### 33 









The LORD hears the needy and does not despise his captive people. 



















###### 34 









Let heaven and earth praise him, the seas and all that move in them, 



















###### 35 









for God will save Zion and rebuild the cities of Judah. Then people will settle there and possess it; 



















###### 36 









the children of his servants will inherit it, and those who love his name will dwell there. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 69:1 In Hebrew texts 69:1-36 is numbered 69:2-37. [^b]: Psalm 69:22 Or _snare / and their fellowship become_
