---
Aliases: [Psalms 66]
previous: ['Ps 65']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 67']
---
# Psalms 66

***




















###### 1 









Shout for joy to God, all the earth! 



















###### 2 









Sing the glory of his name; make his praise glorious. 



















###### 3 









Say to God, "How awesome are your deeds! So great is your power that your enemies cringe before you. 



















###### 4 









All the earth bows down to you; they sing praise to you, they sing the praises of your name."[^a] 



















###### 5 









Come and see what God has done, his awesome deeds for mankind! 



















###### 6 









He turned the sea into dry land, they passed through the waters on foot-- come, let us rejoice in him. 



















###### 7 









He rules forever by his power, his eyes watch the nations-- let not the rebellious rise up against him. 



















###### 8 









Praise our God, all peoples, let the sound of his praise be heard; 



















###### 9 









he has preserved our lives and kept our feet from slipping. 



















###### 10 









For you, God, tested us; you refined us like silver. 



















###### 11 









You brought us into prison and laid burdens on our backs. 



















###### 12 









You let people ride over our heads; we went through fire and water, but you brought us to a place of abundance. 



















###### 13 









I will come to your temple with burnt offerings and fulfill my vows to you-- 



















###### 14 









vows my lips promised and my mouth spoke when I was in trouble. 



















###### 15 









I will sacrifice fat animals to you and an offering of rams; I will offer bulls and goats. 



















###### 16 









Come and hear, all you who fear God; let me tell you what he has done for me. 



















###### 17 









I cried out to him with my mouth; his praise was on my tongue. 



















###### 18 









If I had cherished sin in my heart, the Lord would not have listened; 



















###### 19 









but God has surely listened and has heard my prayer. 



















###### 20 









Praise be to God, who has not rejected my prayer or withheld his love from me! NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 66:4 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here and at the end of verses 7 and 15.
