---
Aliases: [Psalms 65]
previous: ['Ps 64']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 66']
---
# Psalms 65

***




















###### 1 









Praise awaits[^b] you, our God, in Zion; to you our vows will be fulfilled. 



















###### 2 









You who answer prayer, to you all people will come. 



















###### 3 









When we were overwhelmed by sins, you forgave[^c] our transgressions. 



















###### 4 









Blessed are those you choose and bring near to live in your courts! We are filled with the good things of your house, of your holy temple. 



















###### 5 









You answer us with awesome and righteous deeds, God our Savior, the hope of all the ends of the earth and of the farthest seas, 



















###### 6 









who formed the mountains by your power, having armed yourself with strength, 



















###### 7 









who stilled the roaring of the seas, the roaring of their waves, and the turmoil of the nations. 



















###### 8 









The whole earth is filled with awe at your wonders; where morning dawns, where evening fades, you call forth songs of joy. 



















###### 9 









You care for the land and water it; you enrich it abundantly. The streams of God are filled with water to provide the people with grain, for so you have ordained it.[^d] 



















###### 10 









You drench its furrows and level its ridges; you soften it with showers and bless its crops. 



















###### 11 









You crown the year with your bounty, and your carts overflow with abundance. 



















###### 12 









The grasslands of the wilderness overflow; the hills are clothed with gladness. 



















###### 13 









The meadows are covered with flocks and the valleys are mantled with grain; they shout for joy and sing. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 65:1 In Hebrew texts 65:1-13 is numbered 65:2-14. [^b]: Psalm 65:1 Or _befits_; the meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain. [^c]: Psalm 65:3 Or _made atonement for_ [^d]: Psalm 65:9 Or _for that is how you prepare the land_
