---
Aliases: [Psalms 62]
previous: ['Ps 61']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 63']
---
# Psalms 62

***




















###### 1 









Truly my soul finds rest in God; my salvation comes from him. 



















###### 2 









Truly he is my rock and my salvation; he is my fortress, I will never be shaken. 



















###### 3 









How long will you assault me? Would all of you throw me down-- this leaning wall, this tottering fence? 



















###### 4 









Surely they intend to topple me from my lofty place; they take delight in lies. With their mouths they bless, but in their hearts they curse.[^b] 



















###### 5 









Yes, my soul, find rest in God; my hope comes from him. 



















###### 6 









Truly he is my rock and my salvation; he is my fortress, I will not be shaken. 



















###### 7 









My salvation and my honor depend on God[^c]; he is my mighty rock, my refuge. 



















###### 8 









Trust in him at all times, you people; pour out your hearts to him, for God is our refuge. 



















###### 9 









Surely the lowborn are but a breath, the highborn are but a lie. If weighed on a balance, they are nothing; together they are only a breath. 



















###### 10 









Do not trust in extortion or put vain hope in stolen goods; though your riches increase, do not set your heart on them. 



















###### 11 









One thing God has spoken, two things I have heard: "Power belongs to you, God, 



















###### 12 









and with you, Lord, is unfailing love"; and, "You reward everyone according to what they have done." NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 62:1 In Hebrew texts 62:1-12 is numbered 62:2-13. [^b]: Psalm 62:4 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here and at the end of verse 8. [^c]: Psalm 62:7 Or _/ God Most High is my salvation and my honor_
