---
Aliases: [Psalms 61]
previous: ['Ps 60']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 62']
---
# Psalms 61

***




















###### 1 









Hear my cry, O God; listen to my prayer. 



















###### 2 









From the ends of the earth I call to you, I call as my heart grows faint; lead me to the rock that is higher than I. 



















###### 3 









For you have been my refuge, a strong tower against the foe. 



















###### 4 









I long to dwell in your tent forever and take refuge in the shelter of your wings.[^b] 



















###### 5 









For you, God, have heard my vows; you have given me the heritage of those who fear your name. 



















###### 6 









Increase the days of the king's life, his years for many generations. 



















###### 7 









May he be enthroned in God's presence forever; appoint your love and faithfulness to protect him. 



















###### 8 









Then I will ever sing in praise of your name and fulfill my vows day after day. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 61:1 In Hebrew texts 61:1-8 is numbered 61:2-9. [^b]: Psalm 61:4 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here.
