---
Aliases: [Psalms 64]
previous: ['Ps 63']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 65']
---
# Psalms 64

***




















###### 1 









Hear me, my God, as I voice my complaint; protect my life from the threat of the enemy. 



















###### 2 









Hide me from the conspiracy of the wicked, from the plots of evildoers. 



















###### 3 









They sharpen their tongues like swords and aim cruel words like deadly arrows. 



















###### 4 









They shoot from ambush at the innocent; they shoot suddenly, without fear. 



















###### 5 









They encourage each other in evil plans, they talk about hiding their snares; they say, "Who will see it[^b]?" 



















###### 6 









They plot injustice and say, "We have devised a perfect plan!" Surely the human mind and heart are cunning. 



















###### 7 









But God will shoot them with his arrows; they will suddenly be struck down. 



















###### 8 









He will turn their own tongues against them and bring them to ruin; all who see them will shake their heads in scorn. 



















###### 9 









All people will fear; they will proclaim the works of God and ponder what he has done. 



















###### 10 









The righteous will rejoice in the LORD and take refuge in him; all the upright in heart will glory in him! NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 64:1 In Hebrew texts 64:1-10 is numbered 64:2-11. [^b]: Psalm 64:5 Or _us_
