---
Aliases: [Psalms 63]
previous: ['Ps 62']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 64']
---
# Psalms 63

***




















###### 1 









You, God, are my God, earnestly I seek you; I thirst for you, my whole being longs for you, in a dry and parched land where there is no water. 



















###### 2 









I have seen you in the sanctuary and beheld your power and your glory. 



















###### 3 









Because your love is better than life, my lips will glorify you. 



















###### 4 









I will praise you as long as I live, and in your name I will lift up my hands. 



















###### 5 









I will be fully satisfied as with the richest of foods; with singing lips my mouth will praise you. 



















###### 6 









On my bed I remember you; I think of you through the watches of the night. 



















###### 7 









Because you are my help, I sing in the shadow of your wings. 



















###### 8 









I cling to you; your right hand upholds me. 



















###### 9 









Those who want to kill me will be destroyed; they will go down to the depths of the earth. 



















###### 10 









They will be given over to the sword and become food for jackals. 



















###### 11 









But the king will rejoice in God; all who swear by God will glory in him, while the mouths of liars will be silenced. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 63:1 In Hebrew texts 63:1-11 is numbered 63:2-12.
