---
Aliases: [Psalms 60]
previous: ['Ps 59']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 61']
---
# Psalms 60

***




















###### 1 









You have rejected us, God, and burst upon us; you have been angry--now restore us! 



















###### 2 









You have shaken the land and torn it open; mend its fractures, for it is quaking. 



















###### 3 









You have shown your people desperate times; you have given us wine that makes us stagger. 



















###### 4 









But for those who fear you, you have raised a banner to be unfurled against the bow.[^e] 



















###### 5 









Save us and help us with your right hand, that those you love may be delivered. 



















###### 6 









God has spoken from his sanctuary: "In triumph I will parcel out Shechem and measure off the Valley of Sukkoth. 



















###### 7 









Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine; Ephraim is my helmet, Judah is my scepter. 



















###### 8 









Moab is my washbasin, on Edom I toss my sandal; over Philistia I shout in triumph." 



















###### 9 









Who will bring me to the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom? 



















###### 10 









Is it not you, God, you who have now rejected us and no longer go out with our armies? 



















###### 11 









Give us aid against the enemy, for human help is worthless. 



















###### 12 









With God we will gain the victory, and he will trample down our enemies. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 60:1 In Hebrew texts 60:1-12 is numbered 60:3-14. [^b]: Psalm 60:1 Title: Probably a literary or musical term [^c]: Psalm 60:1 Title: That is, Arameans of Northwest Mesopotamia [^d]: Psalm 60:1 Title: That is, Arameans of central Syria [^e]: Psalm 60:4 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here.
