---
Aliases: [Psalms 67]
previous: ['Ps 66']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 68']
---
# Psalms 67

***




















###### 1 









May God be gracious to us and bless us and make his face shine on us--[^b] 



















###### 2 









so that your ways may be known on earth, your salvation among all nations. 



















###### 3 









May the peoples praise you, God; may all the peoples praise you. 



















###### 4 









May the nations be glad and sing for joy, for you rule the peoples with equity and guide the nations of the earth. 



















###### 5 









May the peoples praise you, God; may all the peoples praise you. 



















###### 6 









The land yields its harvest; God, our God, blesses us. 



















###### 7 









May God bless us still, so that all the ends of the earth will fear him. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 67:1 In Hebrew texts 67:1-7 is numbered 67:2-8. [^b]: Psalm 67:1 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here and at the end of verse 4.
