---
Aliases: [Psalms 72]
previous: ['Ps 71']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 73']
---
# Psalms 72

***




















###### 1 









Endow the king with your justice, O God, the royal son with your righteousness. 



















###### 2 









May he judge your people in righteousness, your afflicted ones with justice. 



















###### 3 









May the mountains bring prosperity to the people, the hills the fruit of righteousness. 



















###### 4 









May he defend the afflicted among the people and save the children of the needy; may he crush the oppressor. 



















###### 5 









May he endure[^a] as long as the sun, as long as the moon, through all generations. 



















###### 6 









May he be like rain falling on a mown field, like showers watering the earth. 



















###### 7 









In his days may the righteous flourish and prosperity abound till the moon is no more. 



















###### 8 









May he rule from sea to sea and from the River[^b] to the ends of the earth. 



















###### 9 









May the desert tribes bow before him and his enemies lick the dust. 



















###### 10 









May the kings of Tarshish and of distant shores bring tribute to him. May the kings of Sheba and Seba present him gifts. 



















###### 11 









May all kings bow down to him and all nations serve him. 



















###### 12 









For he will deliver the needy who cry out, the afflicted who have no one to help. 



















###### 13 









He will take pity on the weak and the needy and save the needy from death. 



















###### 14 









He will rescue them from oppression and violence, for precious is their blood in his sight. 



















###### 15 









Long may he live! May gold from Sheba be given him. May people ever pray for him and bless him all day long. 



















###### 16 









May grain abound throughout the land; on the tops of the hills may it sway. May the crops flourish like Lebanon and thrive[^c] like the grass of the field. 



















###### 17 









May his name endure forever; may it continue as long as the sun. Then all nations will be blessed through him,[^d] and they will call him blessed. 



















###### 18 









Praise be to the LORD God, the God of Israel, who alone does marvelous deeds. 



















###### 19 









Praise be to his glorious name forever; may the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen and Amen. 



















###### 20 









This concludes the prayers of David son of Jesse. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 72:5 Septuagint; Hebrew _You will be feared_ [^b]: Psalm 72:8 That is, the Euphrates [^c]: Psalm 72:16 Probable reading of the original Hebrew text; Masoretic Text _Lebanon, / from the city_ [^d]: Psalm 72:17 Or _will use his name in blessings_ (see Gen. 48:20)
