---
Aliases: [Psalms 73]
previous: ['Ps 72']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 74']
---
# Psalms 73

***




















###### 1 









Surely God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart. 



















###### 2 









But as for me, my feet had almost slipped; I had nearly lost my foothold. 



















###### 3 









For I envied the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. 



















###### 4 









They have no struggles; their bodies are healthy and strong.[^a] 



















###### 5 









They are free from common human burdens; they are not plagued by human ills. 



















###### 6 









Therefore pride is their necklace; they clothe themselves with violence. 



















###### 7 









From their callous hearts comes iniquity[^b]; their evil imaginations have no limits. 



















###### 8 









They scoff, and speak with malice; with arrogance they threaten oppression. 



















###### 9 









Their mouths lay claim to heaven, and their tongues take possession of the earth. 



















###### 10 









Therefore their people turn to them and drink up waters in abundance.[^c] 



















###### 11 









They say, "How would God know? Does the Most High know anything?" 



















###### 12 









This is what the wicked are like-- always free of care, they go on amassing wealth. 



















###### 13 









Surely in vain I have kept my heart pure and have washed my hands in innocence. 



















###### 14 









All day long I have been afflicted, and every morning brings new punishments. 



















###### 15 









If I had spoken out like that, I would have betrayed your children. 



















###### 16 









When I tried to understand all this, it troubled me deeply 



















###### 17 









till I entered the sanctuary of God; then I understood their final destiny. 



















###### 18 









Surely you place them on slippery ground; you cast them down to ruin. 



















###### 19 









How suddenly are they destroyed, completely swept away by terrors! 



















###### 20 









They are like a dream when one awakes; when you arise, Lord, you will despise them as fantasies. 



















###### 21 









When my heart was grieved and my spirit embittered, 



















###### 22 









I was senseless and ignorant; I was a brute beast before you. 



















###### 23 









Yet I am always with you; you hold me by my right hand. 



















###### 24 









You guide me with your counsel, and afterward you will take me into glory. 



















###### 25 









Whom have I in heaven but you? And earth has nothing I desire besides you. 



















###### 26 









My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. 



















###### 27 









Those who are far from you will perish; you destroy all who are unfaithful to you. 



















###### 28 









But as for me, it is good to be near God. I have made the Sovereign LORD my refuge; I will tell of all your deeds. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 73:4 With a different word division of the Hebrew; Masoretic Text _struggles at their death; / their bodies are healthy_ [^b]: Psalm 73:7 Syriac (see also Septuagint); Hebrew _Their eyes bulge with fat_ [^c]: Psalm 73:10 The meaning of the Hebrew for this verse is uncertain.
