---
Aliases: [Psalms 76]
previous: ['Ps 75']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 77']
---
# Psalms 76

***




















###### 1 









God is renowned in Judah; in Israel his name is great. 



















###### 2 









His tent is in Salem, his dwelling place in Zion. 



















###### 3 









There he broke the flashing arrows, the shields and the swords, the weapons of war.[^b] 



















###### 4 









You are radiant with light, more majestic than mountains rich with game. 



















###### 5 









The valiant lie plundered, they sleep their last sleep; not one of the warriors can lift his hands. 



















###### 6 









At your rebuke, God of Jacob, both horse and chariot lie still. 



















###### 7 









It is you alone who are to be feared. Who can stand before you when you are angry? 



















###### 8 









From heaven you pronounced judgment, and the land feared and was quiet-- 



















###### 9 









when you, God, rose up to judge, to save all the afflicted of the land. 



















###### 10 









Surely your wrath against mankind brings you praise, and the survivors of your wrath are restrained.[^c] 



















###### 11 









Make vows to the LORD your God and fulfill them; let all the neighboring lands bring gifts to the One to be feared. 



















###### 12 









He breaks the spirit of rulers; he is feared by the kings of the earth. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 76:1 In Hebrew texts 76:1-12 is numbered 76:2-13. [^b]: Psalm 76:3 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here and at the end of verse 9. [^c]: Psalm 76:10 Or _Surely the wrath of mankind brings you praise, / and with the remainder of wrath you arm yourself_
