---
Aliases: [Psalms 78]
previous: ['Ps 77']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 79']
---
# Psalms 78

***




















###### 1 









My people, hear my teaching; listen to the words of my mouth. 



















###### 2 









I will open my mouth with a parable; I will utter hidden things, things from of old-- 



















###### 3 









things we have heard and known, things our ancestors have told us. 



















###### 4 









We will not hide them from their descendants; we will tell the next generation the praiseworthy deeds of the LORD, his power, and the wonders he has done. 



















###### 5 









He decreed statutes for Jacob and established the law in Israel, which he commanded our ancestors to teach their children, 



















###### 6 









so the next generation would know them, even the children yet to be born, and they in turn would tell their children. 



















###### 7 









Then they would put their trust in God and would not forget his deeds but would keep his commands. 



















###### 8 









They would not be like their ancestors-- a stubborn and rebellious generation, whose hearts were not loyal to God, whose spirits were not faithful to him. 



















###### 9 









The men of Ephraim, though armed with bows, turned back on the day of battle; 



















###### 10 









they did not keep God's covenant and refused to live by his law. 



















###### 11 









They forgot what he had done, the wonders he had shown them. 



















###### 12 









He did miracles in the sight of their ancestors in the land of Egypt, in the region of Zoan. 



















###### 13 









He divided the sea and led them through; he made the water stand up like a wall. 



















###### 14 









He guided them with the cloud by day and with light from the fire all night. 



















###### 15 









He split the rocks in the wilderness and gave them water as abundant as the seas; 



















###### 16 









he brought streams out of a rocky crag and made water flow down like rivers. 



















###### 17 









But they continued to sin against him, rebelling in the wilderness against the Most High. 



















###### 18 









They willfully put God to the test by demanding the food they craved. 



















###### 19 









They spoke against God; they said, "Can God really spread a table in the wilderness? 



















###### 20 









True, he struck the rock, and water gushed out, streams flowed abundantly, but can he also give us bread? Can he supply meat for his people?" 



















###### 21 









When the LORD heard them, he was furious; his fire broke out against Jacob, and his wrath rose against Israel, 



















###### 22 









for they did not believe in God or trust in his deliverance. 



















###### 23 









Yet he gave a command to the skies above and opened the doors of the heavens; 



















###### 24 









he rained down manna for the people to eat, he gave them the grain of heaven. 



















###### 25 









Human beings ate the bread of angels; he sent them all the food they could eat. 



















###### 26 









He let loose the east wind from the heavens and by his power made the south wind blow. 



















###### 27 









He rained meat down on them like dust, birds like sand on the seashore. 



















###### 28 









He made them come down inside their camp, all around their tents. 



















###### 29 









They ate till they were gorged-- he had given them what they craved. 



















###### 30 









But before they turned from what they craved, even while the food was still in their mouths, 



















###### 31 









God's anger rose against them; he put to death the sturdiest among them, cutting down the young men of Israel. 



















###### 32 









In spite of all this, they kept on sinning; in spite of his wonders, they did not believe. 



















###### 33 









So he ended their days in futility and their years in terror. 



















###### 34 









Whenever God slew them, they would seek him; they eagerly turned to him again. 



















###### 35 









They remembered that God was their Rock, that God Most High was their Redeemer. 



















###### 36 









But then they would flatter him with their mouths, lying to him with their tongues; 



















###### 37 









their hearts were not loyal to him, they were not faithful to his covenant. 



















###### 38 









Yet he was merciful; he forgave their iniquities and did not destroy them. Time after time he restrained his anger and did not stir up his full wrath. 



















###### 39 









He remembered that they were but flesh, a passing breeze that does not return. 



















###### 40 









How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness and grieved him in the wasteland! 



















###### 41 









Again and again they put God to the test; they vexed the Holy One of Israel. 



















###### 42 









They did not remember his power-- the day he redeemed them from the oppressor, 



















###### 43 









the day he displayed his signs in Egypt, his wonders in the region of Zoan. 



















###### 44 









He turned their river into blood; they could not drink from their streams. 



















###### 45 









He sent swarms of flies that devoured them, and frogs that devastated them. 



















###### 46 









He gave their crops to the grasshopper, their produce to the locust. 



















###### 47 









He destroyed their vines with hail and their sycamore-figs with sleet. 



















###### 48 









He gave over their cattle to the hail, their livestock to bolts of lightning. 



















###### 49 









He unleashed against them his hot anger, his wrath, indignation and hostility-- a band of destroying angels. 



















###### 50 









He prepared a path for his anger; he did not spare them from death but gave them over to the plague. 



















###### 51 









He struck down all the firstborn of Egypt, the firstfruits of manhood in the tents of Ham. 



















###### 52 









But he brought his people out like a flock; he led them like sheep through the wilderness. 



















###### 53 









He guided them safely, so they were unafraid; but the sea engulfed their enemies. 



















###### 54 









And so he brought them to the border of his holy land, to the hill country his right hand had taken. 



















###### 55 









He drove out nations before them and allotted their lands to them as an inheritance; he settled the tribes of Israel in their homes. 



















###### 56 









But they put God to the test and rebelled against the Most High; they did not keep his statutes. 



















###### 57 









Like their ancestors they were disloyal and faithless, as unreliable as a faulty bow. 



















###### 58 









They angered him with their high places; they aroused his jealousy with their idols. 



















###### 59 









When God heard them, he was furious; he rejected Israel completely. 



















###### 60 









He abandoned the tabernacle of Shiloh, the tent he had set up among humans. 



















###### 61 









He sent the ark of his might into captivity, his splendor into the hands of the enemy. 



















###### 62 









He gave his people over to the sword; he was furious with his inheritance. 



















###### 63 









Fire consumed their young men, and their young women had no wedding songs; 



















###### 64 









their priests were put to the sword, and their widows could not weep. 



















###### 65 









Then the Lord awoke as from sleep, as a warrior wakes from the stupor of wine. 



















###### 66 









He beat back his enemies; he put them to everlasting shame. 



















###### 67 









Then he rejected the tents of Joseph, he did not choose the tribe of Ephraim; 



















###### 68 









but he chose the tribe of Judah, Mount Zion, which he loved. 



















###### 69 









He built his sanctuary like the heights, like the earth that he established forever. 



















###### 70 









He chose David his servant and took him from the sheep pens; 



















###### 71 









from tending the sheep he brought him to be the shepherd of his people Jacob, of Israel his inheritance. 



















###### 72 









And David shepherded them with integrity of heart; with skillful hands he led them. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 78:1 Title: Probably a literary or musical term
