---
Aliases: [Psalms 71]
previous: ['Ps 70']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 72']
---
# Psalms 71

***




















###### 1 









In you, LORD, I have taken refuge; let me never be put to shame. 



















###### 2 









In your righteousness, rescue me and deliver me; turn your ear to me and save me. 



















###### 3 









Be my rock of refuge, to which I can always go; give the command to save me, for you are my rock and my fortress. 



















###### 4 









Deliver me, my God, from the hand of the wicked, from the grasp of those who are evil and cruel. 



















###### 5 









For you have been my hope, Sovereign LORD, my confidence since my youth. 



















###### 6 









From birth I have relied on you; you brought me forth from my mother's womb. I will ever praise you. 



















###### 7 









I have become a sign to many; you are my strong refuge. 



















###### 8 









My mouth is filled with your praise, declaring your splendor all day long. 



















###### 9 









Do not cast me away when I am old; do not forsake me when my strength is gone. 



















###### 10 









For my enemies speak against me; those who wait to kill me conspire together. 



















###### 11 









They say, "God has forsaken him; pursue him and seize him, for no one will rescue him." 



















###### 12 









Do not be far from me, my God; come quickly, God, to help me. 



















###### 13 









May my accusers perish in shame; may those who want to harm me be covered with scorn and disgrace. 



















###### 14 









As for me, I will always have hope; I will praise you more and more. 



















###### 15 









My mouth will tell of your righteous deeds, of your saving acts all day long-- though I know not how to relate them all. 



















###### 16 









I will come and proclaim your mighty acts, Sovereign LORD; I will proclaim your righteous deeds, yours alone. 



















###### 17 









Since my youth, God, you have taught me, and to this day I declare your marvelous deeds. 



















###### 18 









Even when I am old and gray, do not forsake me, my God, till I declare your power to the next generation, your mighty acts to all who are to come. 



















###### 19 









Your righteousness, God, reaches to the heavens, you who have done great things. Who is like you, God? 



















###### 20 









Though you have made me see troubles, many and bitter, you will restore my life again; from the depths of the earth you will again bring me up. 



















###### 21 









You will increase my honor and comfort me once more. 



















###### 22 









I will praise you with the harp for your faithfulness, my God; I will sing praise to you with the lyre, Holy One of Israel. 



















###### 23 









My lips will shout for joy when I sing praise to you-- I whom you have delivered. 



















###### 24 









My tongue will tell of your righteous acts all day long, for those who wanted to harm me have been put to shame and confusion. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
