---
Aliases: [Psalms 77]
previous: ['Ps 76']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 78']
---
# Psalms 77

***




















###### 1 









I cried out to God for help; I cried out to God to hear me. 



















###### 2 









When I was in distress, I sought the Lord; at night I stretched out untiring hands, and I would not be comforted. 



















###### 3 









I remembered you, God, and I groaned; I meditated, and my spirit grew faint.[^b] 



















###### 4 









You kept my eyes from closing; I was too troubled to speak. 



















###### 5 









I thought about the former days, the years of long ago; 



















###### 6 









I remembered my songs in the night. My heart meditated and my spirit asked: 



















###### 7 









"Will the Lord reject forever? Will he never show his favor again? 



















###### 8 









Has his unfailing love vanished forever? Has his promise failed for all time? 



















###### 9 









Has God forgotten to be merciful? Has he in anger withheld his compassion?" 



















###### 10 









Then I thought, "To this I will appeal: the years when the Most High stretched out his right hand. 



















###### 11 









I will remember the deeds of the LORD; yes, I will remember your miracles of long ago. 



















###### 12 









I will consider all your works and meditate on all your mighty deeds." 



















###### 13 









Your ways, God, are holy. What god is as great as our God? 



















###### 14 









You are the God who performs miracles; you display your power among the peoples. 



















###### 15 









With your mighty arm you redeemed your people, the descendants of Jacob and Joseph. 



















###### 16 









The waters saw you, God, the waters saw you and writhed; the very depths were convulsed. 



















###### 17 









The clouds poured down water, the heavens resounded with thunder; your arrows flashed back and forth. 



















###### 18 









Your thunder was heard in the whirlwind, your lightning lit up the world; the earth trembled and quaked. 



















###### 19 









Your path led through the sea, your way through the mighty waters, though your footprints were not seen. 



















###### 20 









You led your people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 77:1 In Hebrew texts 77:1-20 is numbered 77:2-21. [^b]: Psalm 77:3 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here and at the end of verses 9 and 15.
