---
Aliases: [Psalms 74]
previous: ['Ps 73']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 75']
---
# Psalms 74

***




















###### 1 









O God, why have you rejected us forever? Why does your anger smolder against the sheep of your pasture? 



















###### 2 









Remember the nation you purchased long ago, the people of your inheritance, whom you redeemed-- Mount Zion, where you dwelt. 



















###### 3 









Turn your steps toward these everlasting ruins, all this destruction the enemy has brought on the sanctuary. 



















###### 4 









Your foes roared in the place where you met with us; they set up their standards as signs. 



















###### 5 









They behaved like men wielding axes to cut through a thicket of trees. 



















###### 6 









They smashed all the carved paneling with their axes and hatchets. 



















###### 7 









They burned your sanctuary to the ground; they defiled the dwelling place of your Name. 



















###### 8 









They said in their hearts, "We will crush them completely!" They burned every place where God was worshiped in the land. 



















###### 9 









We are given no signs from God; no prophets are left, and none of us knows how long this will be. 



















###### 10 









How long will the enemy mock you, God? Will the foe revile your name forever? 



















###### 11 









Why do you hold back your hand, your right hand? Take it from the folds of your garment and destroy them! 



















###### 12 









But God is my King from long ago; he brings salvation on the earth. 



















###### 13 









It was you who split open the sea by your power; you broke the heads of the monster in the waters. 



















###### 14 









It was you who crushed the heads of Leviathan and gave it as food to the creatures of the desert. 



















###### 15 









It was you who opened up springs and streams; you dried up the ever-flowing rivers. 



















###### 16 









The day is yours, and yours also the night; you established the sun and moon. 



















###### 17 









It was you who set all the boundaries of the earth; you made both summer and winter. 



















###### 18 









Remember how the enemy has mocked you, LORD, how foolish people have reviled your name. 



















###### 19 









Do not hand over the life of your dove to wild beasts; do not forget the lives of your afflicted people forever. 



















###### 20 









Have regard for your covenant, because haunts of violence fill the dark places of the land. 



















###### 21 









Do not let the oppressed retreat in disgrace; may the poor and needy praise your name. 



















###### 22 









Rise up, O God, and defend your cause; remember how fools mock you all day long. 



















###### 23 









Do not ignore the clamor of your adversaries, the uproar of your enemies, which rises continually. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 74:1 Title: Probably a literary or musical term
