---
Aliases: [Psalms 79]
previous: ['Ps 78']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 80']
---
# Psalms 79

***




















###### 1 









O God, the nations have invaded your inheritance; they have defiled your holy temple, they have reduced Jerusalem to rubble. 



















###### 2 









They have left the dead bodies of your servants as food for the birds of the sky, the flesh of your own people for the animals of the wild. 



















###### 3 









They have poured out blood like water all around Jerusalem, and there is no one to bury the dead. 



















###### 4 









We are objects of contempt to our neighbors, of scorn and derision to those around us. 



















###### 5 









How long, LORD? Will you be angry forever? How long will your jealousy burn like fire? 



















###### 6 









Pour out your wrath on the nations that do not acknowledge you, on the kingdoms that do not call on your name; 



















###### 7 









for they have devoured Jacob and devastated his homeland. 



















###### 8 









Do not hold against us the sins of past generations; may your mercy come quickly to meet us, for we are in desperate need. 



















###### 9 









Help us, God our Savior, for the glory of your name; deliver us and forgive our sins for your name's sake. 



















###### 10 









Why should the nations say, "Where is their God?" Before our eyes, make known among the nations that you avenge the outpoured blood of your servants. 



















###### 11 









May the groans of the prisoners come before you; with your strong arm preserve those condemned to die. 



















###### 12 









Pay back into the laps of our neighbors seven times the contempt they have hurled at you, Lord. 



















###### 13 









Then we your people, the sheep of your pasture, will praise you forever; from generation to generation we will proclaim your praise. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
