---
Aliases: [Psalms 75]
previous: ['Ps 74']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 76']
---
# Psalms 75

***




















###### 1 









We praise you, God, we praise you, for your Name is near; people tell of your wonderful deeds. 



















###### 2 









You say, "I choose the appointed time; it is I who judge with equity. 



















###### 3 









When the earth and all its people quake, it is I who hold its pillars firm.[^b] 



















###### 4 









To the arrogant I say, 'Boast no more,' and to the wicked, 'Do not lift up your horns.[^c] 



















###### 5 









Do not lift your horns against heaven; do not speak so defiantly.'" 



















###### 6 









No one from the east or the west or from the desert can exalt themselves. 



















###### 7 









It is God who judges: He brings one down, he exalts another. 



















###### 8 









In the hand of the LORD is a cup full of foaming wine mixed with spices; he pours it out, and all the wicked of the earth drink it down to its very dregs. 



















###### 9 









As for me, I will declare this forever; I will sing praise to the God of Jacob, 



















###### 10 









who says, "I will cut off the horns of all the wicked, but the horns of the righteous will be lifted up." NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 75:1 In Hebrew texts 75:1-10 is numbered 75:2-11. [^b]: Psalm 75:3 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here. [^c]: Psalm 75:4 _Horns_ here symbolize strength; also in verses 5 and 10.
