---
Aliases: [Psalms 83]
previous: ['Ps 82']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 84']
---
# Psalms 83

***




















###### 1 









O God, do not remain silent; do not turn a deaf ear, do not stand aloof, O God. 



















###### 2 









See how your enemies growl, how your foes rear their heads. 



















###### 3 









With cunning they conspire against your people; they plot against those you cherish. 



















###### 4 









"Come," they say, "let us destroy them as a nation, so that Israel's name is remembered no more." 



















###### 5 









With one mind they plot together; they form an alliance against you-- 



















###### 6 









the tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites, of Moab and the Hagrites, 



















###### 7 









Byblos, Ammon and Amalek, Philistia, with the people of Tyre. 



















###### 8 









Even Assyria has joined them to reinforce Lot's descendants.[^b] 



















###### 9 









Do to them as you did to Midian, as you did to Sisera and Jabin at the river Kishon, 



















###### 10 









who perished at Endor and became like dung on the ground. 



















###### 11 









Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb, all their princes like Zebah and Zalmunna, 



















###### 12 









who said, "Let us take possession of the pasturelands of God." 



















###### 13 









Make them like tumbleweed, my God, like chaff before the wind. 



















###### 14 









As fire consumes the forest or a flame sets the mountains ablaze, 



















###### 15 









so pursue them with your tempest and terrify them with your storm. 



















###### 16 









Cover their faces with shame, LORD, so that they will seek your name. 



















###### 17 









May they ever be ashamed and dismayed; may they perish in disgrace. 



















###### 18 









Let them know that you, whose name is the LORD-- that you alone are the Most High over all the earth. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 83:1 In Hebrew texts 83:1-18 is numbered 83:2-19. [^b]: Psalm 83:8 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here.
