---
Aliases: [Psalms 84]
previous: ['Ps 83']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 85']
---
# Psalms 84

***




















###### 1 









How lovely is your dwelling place, LORD Almighty! 



















###### 2 









My soul yearns, even faints, for the courts of the LORD; my heart and my flesh cry out for the living God. 



















###### 3 









Even the sparrow has found a home, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may have her young-- a place near your altar, LORD Almighty, my King and my God. 



















###### 4 









Blessed are those who dwell in your house; they are ever praising you.[^c] 



















###### 5 









Blessed are those whose strength is in you, whose hearts are set on pilgrimage. 



















###### 6 









As they pass through the Valley of Baka, they make it a place of springs; the autumn rains also cover it with pools.[^d] 



















###### 7 









They go from strength to strength, till each appears before God in Zion. 



















###### 8 









Hear my prayer, LORD God Almighty; listen to me, God of Jacob. 



















###### 9 









Look on our shield,[^e] O God; look with favor on your anointed one. 



















###### 10 









Better is one day in your courts than a thousand elsewhere; I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of the wicked. 



















###### 11 









For the LORD God is a sun and shield; the LORD bestows favor and honor; no good thing does he withhold from those whose walk is blameless. 



















###### 12 









LORD Almighty, blessed is the one who trusts in you. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 84:1 In Hebrew texts 84:1-12 is numbered 84:2-13. [^b]: Psalm 84:1 Title: Probably a musical term [^c]: Psalm 84:4 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here and at the end of verse 8. [^d]: Psalm 84:6 Or _blessings_ [^e]: Psalm 84:9 Or _sovereign_
