---
Aliases: [Psalms 81]
previous: ['Ps 80']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 82']
---
# Psalms 81

***




















###### 1 









Sing for joy to God our strength; shout aloud to the God of Jacob! 



















###### 2 









Begin the music, strike the timbrel, play the melodious harp and lyre. 



















###### 3 









Sound the ram's horn at the New Moon, and when the moon is full, on the day of our festival; 



















###### 4 









this is a decree for Israel, an ordinance of the God of Jacob. 



















###### 5 









When God went out against Egypt, he established it as a statute for Joseph. I heard an unknown voice say: 



















###### 6 









"I removed the burden from their shoulders; their hands were set free from the basket. 



















###### 7 









In your distress you called and I rescued you, I answered you out of a thundercloud; I tested you at the waters of Meribah.[^c] 



















###### 8 









Hear me, my people, and I will warn you-- if you would only listen to me, Israel! 



















###### 9 









You shall have no foreign god among you; you shall not worship any god other than me. 



















###### 10 









I am the LORD your God, who brought you up out of Egypt. Open wide your mouth and I will fill it. 



















###### 11 









"But my people would not listen to me; Israel would not submit to me. 



















###### 12 









So I gave them over to their stubborn hearts to follow their own devices. 



















###### 13 









"If my people would only listen to me, if Israel would only follow my ways, 



















###### 14 









how quickly I would subdue their enemies and turn my hand against their foes! 



















###### 15 









Those who hate the LORD would cringe before him, and their punishment would last forever. 



















###### 16 









But you would be fed with the finest of wheat; with honey from the rock I would satisfy you." NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 81:1 In Hebrew texts 81:1-16 is numbered 81:2-17. [^b]: Psalm 81:1 Title: Probably a musical term [^c]: Psalm 81:7 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here.
