---
Aliases: [Psalms 86]
previous: ['Ps 85']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 87']
---
# Psalms 86

***




















###### 1 









Hear me, LORD, and answer me, for I am poor and needy. 



















###### 2 









Guard my life, for I am faithful to you; save your servant who trusts in you. You are my God; <sup class="versenum mid-line">3</sup>have mercy on me, Lord, for I call to you all day long. 



















###### 4 









Bring joy to your servant, Lord, for I put my trust in you. 



















###### 5 









You, Lord, are forgiving and good, abounding in love to all who call to you. 



















###### 6 









Hear my prayer, LORD; listen to my cry for mercy. 



















###### 7 









When I am in distress, I call to you, because you answer me. 



















###### 8 









Among the gods there is none like you, Lord; no deeds can compare with yours. 



















###### 9 









All the nations you have made will come and worship before you, Lord; they will bring glory to your name. 



















###### 10 









For you are great and do marvelous deeds; you alone are God. 



















###### 11 









Teach me your way, LORD, that I may rely on your faithfulness; give me an undivided heart, that I may fear your name. 



















###### 12 









I will praise you, Lord my God, with all my heart; I will glorify your name forever. 



















###### 13 









For great is your love toward me; you have delivered me from the depths, from the realm of the dead. 



















###### 14 









Arrogant foes are attacking me, O God; ruthless people are trying to kill me-- they have no regard for you. 



















###### 15 









But you, Lord, are a compassionate and gracious God, slow to anger, abounding in love and faithfulness. 



















###### 16 









Turn to me and have mercy on me; show your strength in behalf of your servant; save me, because I serve you just as my mother did. 



















###### 17 









Give me a sign of your goodness, that my enemies may see it and be put to shame, for you, LORD, have helped me and comforted me. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
