---
Aliases: [Psalms 89]
previous: ['Ps 88']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 90']
---
# Psalms 89

***




















###### 1 









I will sing of the LORD's great love forever; with my mouth I will make your faithfulness known through all generations. 



















###### 2 









I will declare that your love stands firm forever, that you have established your faithfulness in heaven itself. 



















###### 3 









You said, "I have made a covenant with my chosen one, I have sworn to David my servant, 



















###### 4 









'I will establish your line forever and make your throne firm through all generations.'"[^c] 



















###### 5 









The heavens praise your wonders, LORD, your faithfulness too, in the assembly of the holy ones. 



















###### 6 









For who in the skies above can compare with the LORD? Who is like the LORD among the heavenly beings? 



















###### 7 









In the council of the holy ones God is greatly feared; he is more awesome than all who surround him. 



















###### 8 









Who is like you, LORD God Almighty? You, LORD, are mighty, and your faithfulness surrounds you. 



















###### 9 









You rule over the surging sea; when its waves mount up, you still them. 



















###### 10 









You crushed Rahab like one of the slain; with your strong arm you scattered your enemies. 



















###### 11 









The heavens are yours, and yours also the earth; you founded the world and all that is in it. 



















###### 12 









You created the north and the south; Tabor and Hermon sing for joy at your name. 



















###### 13 









Your arm is endowed with power; your hand is strong, your right hand exalted. 



















###### 14 









Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne; love and faithfulness go before you. 



















###### 15 









Blessed are those who have learned to acclaim you, who walk in the light of your presence, LORD. 



















###### 16 









They rejoice in your name all day long; they celebrate your righteousness. 



















###### 17 









For you are their glory and strength, and by your favor you exalt our horn.[^d] 



















###### 18 









Indeed, our shield[^e] belongs to the LORD, our king to the Holy One of Israel. 



















###### 19 









Once you spoke in a vision, to your faithful people you said: "I have bestowed strength on a warrior; I have raised up a young man from among the people. 



















###### 20 









I have found David my servant; with my sacred oil I have anointed him. 



















###### 21 









My hand will sustain him; surely my arm will strengthen him. 



















###### 22 









The enemy will not get the better of him; the wicked will not oppress him. 



















###### 23 









I will crush his foes before him and strike down his adversaries. 



















###### 24 









My faithful love will be with him, and through my name his horn[^f] will be exalted. 



















###### 25 









I will set his hand over the sea, his right hand over the rivers. 



















###### 26 









He will call out to me, 'You are my Father, my God, the Rock my Savior.' 



















###### 27 









And I will appoint him to be my firstborn, the most exalted of the kings of the earth. 



















###### 28 









I will maintain my love to him forever, and my covenant with him will never fail. 



















###### 29 









I will establish his line forever, his throne as long as the heavens endure. 



















###### 30 









"If his sons forsake my law and do not follow my statutes, 



















###### 31 









if they violate my decrees and fail to keep my commands, 



















###### 32 









I will punish their sin with the rod, their iniquity with flogging; 



















###### 33 









but I will not take my love from him, nor will I ever betray my faithfulness. 



















###### 34 









I will not violate my covenant or alter what my lips have uttered. 



















###### 35 









Once for all, I have sworn by my holiness-- and I will not lie to David-- 



















###### 36 









that his line will continue forever and his throne endure before me like the sun; 



















###### 37 









it will be established forever like the moon, the faithful witness in the sky." 



















###### 38 









But you have rejected, you have spurned, you have been very angry with your anointed one. 



















###### 39 









You have renounced the covenant with your servant and have defiled his crown in the dust. 



















###### 40 









You have broken through all his walls and reduced his strongholds to ruins. 



















###### 41 









All who pass by have plundered him; he has become the scorn of his neighbors. 



















###### 42 









You have exalted the right hand of his foes; you have made all his enemies rejoice. 



















###### 43 









Indeed, you have turned back the edge of his sword and have not supported him in battle. 



















###### 44 









You have put an end to his splendor and cast his throne to the ground. 



















###### 45 









You have cut short the days of his youth; you have covered him with a mantle of shame. 



















###### 46 









How long, LORD? Will you hide yourself forever? How long will your wrath burn like fire? 



















###### 47 









Remember how fleeting is my life. For what futility you have created all humanity! 



















###### 48 









Who can live and not see death, or who can escape the power of the grave? 



















###### 49 









Lord, where is your former great love, which in your faithfulness you swore to David? 



















###### 50 









Remember, Lord, how your servant has[^g] been mocked, how I bear in my heart the taunts of all the nations, 



















###### 51 









the taunts with which your enemies, LORD, have mocked, with which they have mocked every step of your anointed one. 



















###### 52 









Praise be to the LORD forever! Amen and Amen. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 89:1 In Hebrew texts 89:1-52 is numbered 89:2-53. [^b]: Psalm 89:1 Title: Probably a literary or musical term [^c]: Psalm 89:4 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here and at the end of verses 37, 45 and 48. [^d]: Psalm 89:17 _Horn_ here symbolizes strong one. [^e]: Psalm 89:18 Or _sovereign_ [^f]: Psalm 89:24 _Horn_ here symbolizes strength. [^g]: Psalm 89:50 Or _your servants have_
