---
Aliases: [Psalms 82]
previous: ['Ps 81']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 83']
---
# Psalms 82

***




















###### 1 









God presides in the great assembly; he renders judgment among the "gods": 



















###### 2 









"How long will you[^a] defend the unjust and show partiality to the wicked?[^b] 



















###### 3 









Defend the weak and the fatherless; uphold the cause of the poor and the oppressed. 



















###### 4 









Rescue the weak and the needy; deliver them from the hand of the wicked. 



















###### 5 









"The 'gods' know nothing, they understand nothing. They walk about in darkness; all the foundations of the earth are shaken. 



















###### 6 









"I said, 'You are "gods"; you are all sons of the Most High.' 



















###### 7 









But you will die like mere mortals; you will fall like every other ruler." 



















###### 8 









Rise up, O God, judge the earth, for all the nations are your inheritance. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 82:2 The Hebrew is plural. [^b]: Psalm 82:2 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here.
