---
Aliases: [Psalms 88]
previous: ['Ps 87']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 89']
---
# Psalms 88

***




















###### 1 









LORD, you are the God who saves me; day and night I cry out to you. 



















###### 2 









May my prayer come before you; turn your ear to my cry. 



















###### 3 









I am overwhelmed with troubles and my life draws near to death. 



















###### 4 









I am counted among those who go down to the pit; I am like one without strength. 



















###### 5 









I am set apart with the dead, like the slain who lie in the grave, whom you remember no more, who are cut off from your care. 



















###### 6 









You have put me in the lowest pit, in the darkest depths. 



















###### 7 









Your wrath lies heavily on me; you have overwhelmed me with all your waves.[^d] 



















###### 8 









You have taken from me my closest friends and have made me repulsive to them. I am confined and cannot escape; 



















###### 9 









my eyes are dim with grief. I call to you, LORD, every day; I spread out my hands to you. 



















###### 10 









Do you show your wonders to the dead? Do their spirits rise up and praise you? 



















###### 11 









Is your love declared in the grave, your faithfulness in Destruction[^e]? 



















###### 12 









Are your wonders known in the place of darkness, or your righteous deeds in the land of oblivion? 



















###### 13 









But I cry to you for help, LORD; in the morning my prayer comes before you. 



















###### 14 









Why, LORD, do you reject me and hide your face from me? 



















###### 15 









From my youth I have suffered and been close to death; I have borne your terrors and am in despair. 



















###### 16 









Your wrath has swept over me; your terrors have destroyed me. 



















###### 17 









All day long they surround me like a flood; they have completely engulfed me. 



















###### 18 









You have taken from me friend and neighbor-- darkness is my closest friend. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 88:1 In Hebrew texts 88:1-18 is numbered 88:2-19. [^b]: Psalm 88:1 Title: Possibly a tune, “The Suffering of Affliction” [^c]: Psalm 88:1 Title: Probably a literary or musical term [^d]: Psalm 88:7 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here and at the end of verse 10. [^e]: Psalm 88:11 Hebrew _Abaddon_
