---
Aliases: [Psalms 80]
previous: ['Ps 79']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 81']
---
# Psalms 80

***




















###### 1 









Hear us, Shepherd of Israel, you who lead Joseph like a flock. You who sit enthroned between the cherubim, shine forth <sup class="versenum mid-line">2</sup>before Ephraim, Benjamin and Manasseh. Awaken your might; come and save us. 



















###### 3 









Restore us, O God; make your face shine on us, that we may be saved. 



















###### 4 









How long, LORD God Almighty, will your anger smolder against the prayers of your people? 



















###### 5 









You have fed them with the bread of tears; you have made them drink tears by the bowlful. 



















###### 6 









You have made us an object of derision[^b] to our neighbors, and our enemies mock us. 



















###### 7 









Restore us, God Almighty; make your face shine on us, that we may be saved. 



















###### 8 









You transplanted a vine from Egypt; you drove out the nations and planted it. 



















###### 9 









You cleared the ground for it, and it took root and filled the land. 



















###### 10 









The mountains were covered with its shade, the mighty cedars with its branches. 



















###### 11 









Its branches reached as far as the Sea,[^c] its shoots as far as the River.[^d] 



















###### 12 









Why have you broken down its walls so that all who pass by pick its grapes? 



















###### 13 









Boars from the forest ravage it, and insects from the fields feed on it. 



















###### 14 









Return to us, God Almighty! Look down from heaven and see! Watch over this vine, 



















###### 15 









the root your right hand has planted, the son[^e] you have raised up for yourself. 



















###### 16 









Your vine is cut down, it is burned with fire; at your rebuke your people perish. 



















###### 17 









Let your hand rest on the man at your right hand, the son of man you have raised up for yourself. 



















###### 18 









Then we will not turn away from you; revive us, and we will call on your name. 



















###### 19 









Restore us, LORD God Almighty; make your face shine on us, that we may be saved. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 80:1 In Hebrew texts 80:1-19 is numbered 80:2-20. [^b]: Psalm 80:6 Probable reading of the original Hebrew text; Masoretic Text _contention_ [^c]: Psalm 80:11 Probably the Mediterranean [^d]: Psalm 80:11 That is, the Euphrates [^e]: Psalm 80:15 Or _branch_
