---
Aliases: [Psalms 85]
previous: ['Ps 84']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 86']
---
# Psalms 85

***




















###### 1 









You, LORD, showed favor to your land; you restored the fortunes of Jacob. 



















###### 2 









You forgave the iniquity of your people and covered all their sins.[^b] 



















###### 3 









You set aside all your wrath and turned from your fierce anger. 



















###### 4 









Restore us again, God our Savior, and put away your displeasure toward us. 



















###### 5 









Will you be angry with us forever? Will you prolong your anger through all generations? 



















###### 6 









Will you not revive us again, that your people may rejoice in you? 



















###### 7 









Show us your unfailing love, LORD, and grant us your salvation. 



















###### 8 









I will listen to what God the LORD says; he promises peace to his people, his faithful servants-- but let them not turn to folly. 



















###### 9 









Surely his salvation is near those who fear him, that his glory may dwell in our land. 



















###### 10 









Love and faithfulness meet together; righteousness and peace kiss each other. 



















###### 11 









Faithfulness springs forth from the earth, and righteousness looks down from heaven. 



















###### 12 









The LORD will indeed give what is good, and our land will yield its harvest. 



















###### 13 









Righteousness goes before him and prepares the way for his steps. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 85:1 In Hebrew texts 85:1-13 is numbered 85:2-14. [^b]: Psalm 85:2 The Hebrew has _Selah_ (a word of uncertain meaning) here.
