---
Aliases: [Psalms 97]
previous: ['Ps 96']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 98']
---
# Psalms 97

***




















###### 1 









The LORD reigns, let the earth be glad; let the distant shores rejoice. 



















###### 2 









Clouds and thick darkness surround him; righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne. 



















###### 3 









Fire goes before him and consumes his foes on every side. 



















###### 4 









His lightning lights up the world; the earth sees and trembles. 



















###### 5 









The mountains melt like wax before the LORD, before the Lord of all the earth. 



















###### 6 









The heavens proclaim his righteousness, and all peoples see his glory. 



















###### 7 









All who worship images are put to shame, those who boast in idols-- worship him, all you gods! 



















###### 8 









Zion hears and rejoices and the villages of Judah are glad because of your judgments, LORD. 



















###### 9 









For you, LORD, are the Most High over all the earth; you are exalted far above all gods. 



















###### 10 









Let those who love the LORD hate evil, for he guards the lives of his faithful ones and delivers them from the hand of the wicked. 



















###### 11 









Light shines[^a] on the righteous and joy on the upright in heart. 



















###### 12 









Rejoice in the LORD, you who are righteous, and praise his holy name. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 97:11 One Hebrew manuscript and ancient versions (see also 112:4); most Hebrew manuscripts _Light is sown_
