---
Aliases: [Psalms 96]
previous: ['Ps 95']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 97']
---
# Psalms 96

***




















###### 1 









Sing to the LORD a new song; sing to the LORD, all the earth. 



















###### 2 









Sing to the LORD, praise his name; proclaim his salvation day after day. 



















###### 3 









Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous deeds among all peoples. 



















###### 4 









For great is the LORD and most worthy of praise; he is to be feared above all gods. 



















###### 5 









For all the gods of the nations are idols, but the LORD made the heavens. 



















###### 6 









Splendor and majesty are before him; strength and glory are in his sanctuary. 



















###### 7 









Ascribe to the LORD, all you families of nations, ascribe to the LORD glory and strength. 



















###### 8 









Ascribe to the LORD the glory due his name; bring an offering and come into his courts. 



















###### 9 









Worship the LORD in the splendor of his[^a] holiness; tremble before him, all the earth. 



















###### 10 









Say among the nations, "The LORD reigns." The world is firmly established, it cannot be moved; he will judge the peoples with equity. 



















###### 11 









Let the heavens rejoice, let the earth be glad; let the sea resound, and all that is in it. 



















###### 12 









Let the fields be jubilant, and everything in them; let all the trees of the forest sing for joy. 



















###### 13 









Let all creation rejoice before the LORD, for he comes, he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world in righteousness and the peoples in his faithfulness. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 96:9 Or _Lord with the splendor of_
