---
Aliases: [Psalms 94]
previous: ['Ps 93']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 95']
---
# Psalms 94

***




















###### 1 









The LORD is a God who avenges. O God who avenges, shine forth. 



















###### 2 









Rise up, Judge of the earth; pay back to the proud what they deserve. 



















###### 3 









How long, LORD, will the wicked, how long will the wicked be jubilant? 



















###### 4 









They pour out arrogant words; all the evildoers are full of boasting. 



















###### 5 









They crush your people, LORD; they oppress your inheritance. 



















###### 6 









They slay the widow and the foreigner; they murder the fatherless. 



















###### 7 









They say, "The LORD does not see; the God of Jacob takes no notice." 



















###### 8 









Take notice, you senseless ones among the people; you fools, when will you become wise? 



















###### 9 









Does he who fashioned the ear not hear? Does he who formed the eye not see? 



















###### 10 









Does he who disciplines nations not punish? Does he who teaches mankind lack knowledge? 



















###### 11 









The LORD knows all human plans; he knows that they are futile. 



















###### 12 









Blessed is the one you discipline, LORD, the one you teach from your law; 



















###### 13 









you grant them relief from days of trouble, till a pit is dug for the wicked. 



















###### 14 









For the LORD will not reject his people; he will never forsake his inheritance. 



















###### 15 









Judgment will again be founded on righteousness, and all the upright in heart will follow it. 



















###### 16 









Who will rise up for me against the wicked? Who will take a stand for me against evildoers? 



















###### 17 









Unless the LORD had given me help, I would soon have dwelt in the silence of death. 



















###### 18 









When I said, "My foot is slipping," your unfailing love, LORD, supported me. 



















###### 19 









When anxiety was great within me, your consolation brought me joy. 



















###### 20 









Can a corrupt throne be allied with you-- a throne that brings on misery by its decrees? 



















###### 21 









The wicked band together against the righteous and condemn the innocent to death. 



















###### 22 









But the LORD has become my fortress, and my God the rock in whom I take refuge. 



















###### 23 









He will repay them for their sins and destroy them for their wickedness; the LORD our God will destroy them. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
