---
Aliases: [Psalms 98]
previous: ['Ps 97']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 99']
---
# Psalms 98

***




















###### 1 









Sing to the LORD a new song, for he has done marvelous things; his right hand and his holy arm have worked salvation for him. 



















###### 2 









The LORD has made his salvation known and revealed his righteousness to the nations. 



















###### 3 









He has remembered his love and his faithfulness to Israel; all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. 



















###### 4 









Shout for joy to the LORD, all the earth, burst into jubilant song with music; 



















###### 5 









make music to the LORD with the harp, with the harp and the sound of singing, 



















###### 6 









with trumpets and the blast of the ram's horn-- shout for joy before the LORD, the King. 



















###### 7 









Let the sea resound, and everything in it, the world, and all who live in it. 



















###### 8 









Let the rivers clap their hands, let the mountains sing together for joy; 



















###### 9 









let them sing before the LORD, for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world in righteousness and the peoples with equity. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
