---
Aliases: [Psalms 92]
previous: ['Ps 91']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 93']
---
# Psalms 92

***




















###### 1 









It is good to praise the LORD and make music to your name, O Most High, 



















###### 2 









proclaiming your love in the morning and your faithfulness at night, 



















###### 3 









to the music of the ten-stringed lyre and the melody of the harp. 



















###### 4 









For you make me glad by your deeds, LORD; I sing for joy at what your hands have done. 



















###### 5 









How great are your works, LORD, how profound your thoughts! 



















###### 6 









Senseless people do not know, fools do not understand, 



















###### 7 









that though the wicked spring up like grass and all evildoers flourish, they will be destroyed forever. 



















###### 8 









But you, LORD, are forever exalted. 



















###### 9 









For surely your enemies, LORD, surely your enemies will perish; all evildoers will be scattered. 



















###### 10 









You have exalted my horn[^b] like that of a wild ox; fine oils have been poured on me. 



















###### 11 









My eyes have seen the defeat of my adversaries; my ears have heard the rout of my wicked foes. 



















###### 12 









The righteous will flourish like a palm tree, they will grow like a cedar of Lebanon; 



















###### 13 









planted in the house of the LORD, they will flourish in the courts of our God. 



















###### 14 









They will still bear fruit in old age, they will stay fresh and green, 



















###### 15 









proclaiming, "The LORD is upright; he is my Rock, and there is no wickedness in him." NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 92:1 In Hebrew texts 92:1-15 is numbered 92:2-16. [^b]: Psalm 92:10 _Horn_ here symbolizes strength.
