---
Aliases: [Psalms 95]
previous: ['Ps 94']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 96']
---
# Psalms 95

***




















###### 1 









Come, let us sing for joy to the LORD; let us shout aloud to the Rock of our salvation. 



















###### 2 









Let us come before him with thanksgiving and extol him with music and song. 



















###### 3 









For the LORD is the great God, the great King above all gods. 



















###### 4 









In his hand are the depths of the earth, and the mountain peaks belong to him. 



















###### 5 









The sea is his, for he made it, and his hands formed the dry land. 



















###### 6 









Come, let us bow down in worship, let us kneel before the LORD our Maker; 



















###### 7 









for he is our God and we are the people of his pasture, the flock under his care. Today, if only you would hear his voice, 



















###### 8 









"Do not harden your hearts as you did at Meribah,[^a] as you did that day at Massah[^b] in the wilderness, 



















###### 9 









where your ancestors tested me; they tried me, though they had seen what I did. 



















###### 10 









For forty years I was angry with that generation; I said, 'They are a people whose hearts go astray, and they have not known my ways.' 



















###### 11 









So I declared on oath in my anger, 'They shall never enter my rest.'" NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 95:8 _Meribah_ means _quarreling._ [^b]: Psalm 95:8 _Massah_ means _testing._
