---
Aliases: [Psalms 99]
previous: ['Ps 98']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 100']
---
# Psalms 99

***




















###### 1 









The LORD reigns, let the nations tremble; he sits enthroned between the cherubim, let the earth shake. 



















###### 2 









Great is the LORD in Zion; he is exalted over all the nations. 



















###### 3 









Let them praise your great and awesome name-- he is holy. 



















###### 4 









The King is mighty, he loves justice-- you have established equity; in Jacob you have done what is just and right. 



















###### 5 









Exalt the LORD our God and worship at his footstool; he is holy. 



















###### 6 









Moses and Aaron were among his priests, Samuel was among those who called on his name; they called on the LORD and he answered them. 



















###### 7 









He spoke to them from the pillar of cloud; they kept his statutes and the decrees he gave them. 



















###### 8 









LORD our God, you answered them; you were to Israel a forgiving God, though you punished their misdeeds.[^a] 



















###### 9 









Exalt the LORD our God and worship at his holy mountain, for the LORD our God is holy. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 99:8 Or _God, / an avenger of the wrongs done to them_
