---
Aliases: [Psalms 90]
previous: ['Ps 89']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 91']
---
# Psalms 90

***




















###### 1 









Lord, you have been our dwelling place throughout all generations. 



















###### 2 









Before the mountains were born or you brought forth the whole world, from everlasting to everlasting you are God. 



















###### 3 









You turn people back to dust, saying, "Return to dust, you mortals." 



















###### 4 









A thousand years in your sight are like a day that has just gone by, or like a watch in the night. 



















###### 5 









Yet you sweep people away in the sleep of death-- they are like the new grass of the morning: 



















###### 6 









In the morning it springs up new, but by evening it is dry and withered. 



















###### 7 









We are consumed by your anger and terrified by your indignation. 



















###### 8 









You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence. 



















###### 9 









All our days pass away under your wrath; we finish our years with a moan. 



















###### 10 









Our days may come to seventy years, or eighty, if our strength endures; yet the best of them are but trouble and sorrow, for they quickly pass, and we fly away. 



















###### 11 









If only we knew the power of your anger! Your wrath is as great as the fear that is your due. 



















###### 12 









Teach us to number our days, that we may gain a heart of wisdom. 



















###### 13 









Relent, LORD! How long will it be? Have compassion on your servants. 



















###### 14 









Satisfy us in the morning with your unfailing love, that we may sing for joy and be glad all our days. 



















###### 15 









Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us, for as many years as we have seen trouble. 



















###### 16 









May your deeds be shown to your servants, your splendor to their children. 



















###### 17 









May the favor[^a] of the Lord our God rest on us; establish the work of our hands for us-- yes, establish the work of our hands. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 90:17 Or _beauty_
