---
Aliases: [Psalms 91]
previous: ['Ps 90']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 92']
---
# Psalms 91

***




















###### 1 









Whoever dwells in the shelter of the Most High will rest in the shadow of the Almighty.[^a] 



















###### 2 









I will say of the LORD, "He is my refuge and my fortress, my God, in whom I trust." 



















###### 3 









Surely he will save you from the fowler's snare and from the deadly pestilence. 



















###### 4 









He will cover you with his feathers, and under his wings you will find refuge; his faithfulness will be your shield and rampart. 



















###### 5 









You will not fear the terror of night, nor the arrow that flies by day, 



















###### 6 









nor the pestilence that stalks in the darkness, nor the plague that destroys at midday. 



















###### 7 









A thousand may fall at your side, ten thousand at your right hand, but it will not come near you. 



















###### 8 









You will only observe with your eyes and see the punishment of the wicked. 



















###### 9 









If you say, "The LORD is my refuge," and you make the Most High your dwelling, 



















###### 10 









no harm will overtake you, no disaster will come near your tent. 



















###### 11 









For he will command his angels concerning you to guard you in all your ways; 



















###### 12 









they will lift you up in their hands, so that you will not strike your foot against a stone. 



















###### 13 









You will tread on the lion and the cobra; you will trample the great lion and the serpent. 



















###### 14 









"Because he[^b] loves me," says the LORD, "I will rescue him; I will protect him, for he acknowledges my name. 



















###### 15 









He will call on me, and I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble, I will deliver him and honor him. 



















###### 16 









With long life I will satisfy him and show him my salvation." NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 91:1 Hebrew _Shaddai_ [^b]: Psalm 91:14 That is, probably the king
