---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 16]
previous: ['1 Chr 15']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 17']
---
# 1 Chronicles 16

***














###### 1 






So they brought the ark of God and set it in the midst of the tent which David had pitched for it, and they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before God. 













###### 2 






And when David had finished offering the burnt offerings and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord. 













###### 3 






And he distributed to everyone of Israel, both man and woman, to everyone a loaf of bread, a portion of meat, and a cake of raisins. 













###### 4 






He appointed Levites to minister before the ark of the Lord and to celebrate [by calling to mind], thanking and praising the Lord, the God of Israel: 













###### 5 






Asaph was the chief, next to him Zechariah, Jeiel (Jaaziel), Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, and Benaiah, Obed-edom and Jeiel, who were to play harps and lyres; Asaph was to sound the cymbals; 













###### 6 






Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests were to blow trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God. 













###### 7 






Then on that day David first entrusted to Asaph and his brethren the singing of thanks to the Lord [as their chief task]: 













###### 8 






O give thanks to the Lord, call on His name; make known His doings among the peoples! 













###### 9 






Sing to Him, sing praises to Him; meditate on _and_ talk of all His wondrous works _and_ devoutly praise them! 













###### 10 






Glory in His holy name; let the hearts of those rejoice who seek the Lord! 













###### 11 






Seek the Lord and His strength; yearn for _and_ seek His face _and_ to be in His presence continually! 













###### 12 






[Earnestly] remember the marvelous deeds which He has done, His miracles, and the judgments He uttered [as in Egypt], 













###### 13 






O you offspring of [Abraham and] of Israel His servants, you children of Jacob, His chosen ones! 













###### 14 






He is the Lord our God; His judgments are in all the earth. 













###### 15 






Be mindful of His covenant forever, the promise which He commanded _and_ established to a thousand generations, 













###### 16 






The covenant which He made with Abraham, and His sworn promise to Isaac. 













###### 17 






He confirmed it as a statute to Jacob, and to Israel for an everlasting covenant, 













###### 18 






Saying, To you I will give the land of Canaan, the measured portion of your possession _and_ inheritance. 













###### 19 






When they were but few, even a very few, and only temporary residents _and_ strangers in it, 













###### 20 






When they went from nation to nation, and from one kingdom to another people, 













###### 21 






He allowed no man to do them wrong; yes, He reproved kings for their sakes, 













###### 22 






Saying, Touch not My anointed, and do My prophets no harm. 













###### 23 






Sing to the Lord, all the earth; show forth from day to day His salvation. 













###### 24 






Declare His glory among the nations, His marvelous works among all peoples. 













###### 25 






For great is the Lord and greatly to be praised; He also is to be [reverently] feared above all so-called gods. 













###### 26 






For all the gods of the people are [lifeless] idols, but the Lord made the heavens. 













###### 27 






Honor and majesty are [found] in His presence; strength and joy are [found] in His sanctuary. 













###### 28 






Ascribe to the Lord, you families of the peoples, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength, 













###### 29 






Ascribe to the Lord the glory due His name. Bring an offering and come before Him; worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness _and_ in holy array. 













###### 30 






Tremble _and_ reverently fear before Him, all the earth's peoples; the world also shall be established, so it cannot be moved. 













###### 31 






Let the heavens be glad and let the earth rejoice; and let men say among the nations, The Lord reigns! 













###### 32 






Let the sea roar, and all the things that fill it; let the fields rejoice, and all that is in them. 













###### 33 






Then shall the trees of the wood sing out for joy before the Lord, for He comes to judge _and_ govern the earth. 













###### 34 






O give thanks to the Lord, for He is good; for His mercy _and_ loving-kindness endure forever! 













###### 35 






And say, Save us, O God of our salvation; gather us together and deliver us from the nations, that we may give thanks to Your holy name and glory in Your praise. 













###### 36 






Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, forever and ever! And all the people said Amen! and praised the Lord. 













###### 37 






So David left Asaph and his brethren before the ark of the covenant of the Lord to minister before the ark continually, as each day's work required, 













###### 38 






And Obed-edom with [his] sixty-eight kinsmen. Also Obed-edom son of Jeduthun, and Hosah, were to be gatekeepers. 













###### 39 






And David left Zadok the priest and his brethren the priests before the tabernacle of the Lord in the high place that was at Gibeon 













###### 40 






To offer burnt offerings to the Lord upon the altar of burnt offering continually, morning and evening, and to do all that is written in the Law of the Lord which He commanded Israel. 













###### 41 






With them were Heman and Jeduthun and the rest who were chosen and expressly named to give thanks to the Lord, for His mercy _and_ loving-kindness endure forever. 













###### 42 






With them were Heman and Jeduthun with trumpets and cymbals for those who should sound aloud, and instruments for accompanying the songs of God. And the sons of Jeduthun were to be at the gate. 













###### 43 






Then all the people departed, each man to his house, and David returned home to bless his household. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
