---
Aliases: [Psalms 14]
previous: ['Ps 13']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 15']
---
# Psalms 14

***


###### 1 
The fool has said in his heart, "_There is_ no God." They are corrupt, They have done abominable works, There is none who does good. 

###### 2 
The Lord looks down from heaven upon the children of men, To see if there are any who understand, who seek God. 

###### 3 
They have all turned aside, They have together become corrupt; _There is_ none who does good, No, not one. 

###### 4 
Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge, Who eat up my people _as_ they eat bread, And do not call on the Lord? 

###### 5 
There they are in great fear, For God _is_ with the generation of the righteous. 

###### 6 
You shame the counsel of the poor, But the Lord _is_ his refuge. 

###### 7 
Oh,[^a] that the salvation of Israel _would come_ out of Zion! When the Lord brings back [^b]the captivity of His people, Let Jacob rejoice _and_ Israel be glad. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 14:7 Lit. _Who will give out of Zion the salvation of Israel?_ [^b]: Psalm 14:7 Or _His captive people_
