---
Aliases: [Psalms 17]
previous: ['Ps 16']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 18']
---
# Psalms 17

***


###### 1 
Hear a just cause, O Lord, Attend to my cry; Give ear to my prayer _which is_ not from deceitful lips. 

###### 2 
Let my vindication come from Your presence; Let Your eyes look on the things that are upright. 

###### 3 
You have tested my heart; You have visited _me_ in the night; You have [^a]tried me and have found [^b]nothing; I have purposed that my mouth shall not transgress. 

###### 4 
Concerning the works of men, By the word of Your lips, I have kept away from the paths of the destroyer. 

###### 5 
Uphold my steps in Your paths, _That_ my footsteps may not slip. 

###### 6 
I have called upon You, for You will hear me, O God; Incline Your ear to me, _and_ hear my speech. 

###### 7 
Show Your marvelous lovingkindness by Your right hand, O You who [^c]save those who trust _in You_ From those who rise up _against them._ 

###### 8 
Keep me as the [^d]apple of Your eye; Hide me under the shadow of Your wings, 

###### 9 
From the wicked who oppress me, _From_ my deadly enemies who surround me. 

###### 10 
They have closed up their fat _hearts;_ With their mouths they speak proudly. 

###### 11 
They have now surrounded us in our steps; They have set their eyes, crouching down to the earth, 

###### 12 
As a lion is eager to tear his prey, And like a young lion lurking in secret places. 

###### 13 
Arise, O Lord, Confront him, cast him down; Deliver my life from the wicked with Your sword, 

###### 14 
With Your hand from men, O Lord, From men of the world _who have_ their portion in _this_ life, And whose belly You fill with Your hidden treasure. They are satisfied with children, And leave the rest of their _possession_ for their babes. 

###### 15 
As for me, I will see Your face in righteousness; I shall be satisfied when I awake in Your likeness. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 17:3 _examined_ [^b]: Psalm 17:3 Nothing evil [^c]: Psalm 17:7 _deliver_ [^d]: Psalm 17:8 _pupil_
