---
Aliases: [Psalms 10]
previous: ['Ps 9']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 11']
---
# Psalms 10

***


###### 1 
Why do You stand afar off, O Lord? _Why_ do You hide in times of trouble? 

###### 2 
The wicked in _his_ pride [^a]persecutes the poor; Let them be caught in the plots which they have devised. 

###### 3 
For the wicked boasts of his heart's desire; [^b]He blesses the greedy _and_ renounces the Lord. 

###### 4 
The wicked in his proud countenance does not seek _God;_ [^c]God _is_ in none of his thoughts. 

###### 5 
His ways [^d]are always prospering; Your judgments _are_ far above, out of his sight; _As for_ all his enemies, he sneers at them. 

###### 6 
He has said in his heart, "I shall not be moved; I shall never be in adversity." 

###### 7 
His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and oppression; Under his tongue _is_ trouble and iniquity. 

###### 8 
He sits in the lurking places of the villages; In the secret places he murders the innocent; His eyes are secretly fixed on the helpless. 

###### 9 
He lies in wait secretly, as a lion in his den; He lies in wait to catch the poor; He catches the poor when he draws him into his net. 

###### 10 
So [^e]he crouches, he lies low, That the helpless may fall by his [^f]strength. 

###### 11 
He has said in his heart, "God has forgotten; He hides His face; He will never see." 

###### 12 
Arise, O Lord! O God, lift up Your hand! Do not forget the humble. 

###### 13 
Why do the wicked renounce God? He has said in his heart, "You will not require _an account._" 

###### 14 
But You have seen, for You observe trouble and grief, To repay _it_ by Your hand. The helpless commits[^g] himself to You; You are the helper of the fatherless. 

###### 15 
Break the arm of the wicked and the evil _man;_ Seek out his wickedness _until_ You find none. 

###### 16 
The Lord _is_ King forever and ever; The nations have perished out of His land. 

###### 17 
Lord, You have heard the desire of the humble; You will prepare their heart; You will cause Your ear to hear, 

###### 18 
To [^h]do justice to the fatherless and the oppressed, That the man of the earth may [^i]oppress no more. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 10:2 _hotly pursues_ [^b]: Psalm 10:3 Or _The greedy man curses and spurns the Lord_ [^c]: Psalm 10:4 Or _All his thoughts are, “There is no God”_ [^d]: Psalm 10:5 Lit. _are strong_ [^e]: Psalm 10:10 Or _he is crushed, is bowed_ [^f]: Psalm 10:10 Or _mighty ones_ [^g]: Psalm 10:14 Lit. _leaves,_ entrusts [^h]: Psalm 10:18 _vindicate_ [^i]: Psalm 10:18 _terrify_
