---
Aliases: [Psalms 112]
previous: ['Ps 111']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 113']
---
# Psalms 112

***


###### 1 
Praise[^a] the Lord! Blessed _is_ the man _who_ fears the Lord, _Who_ delights greatly in His commandments. 

###### 2 
His descendants will be mighty on earth; The generation of the upright will be blessed. 

###### 3 
Wealth and riches _will be_ in his house, And his righteousness [^b]endures forever. 

###### 4 
Unto the upright there arises light in the darkness; _He is_ gracious, and full of compassion, and righteous. 

###### 5 
A good man deals graciously and lends; He will guide his affairs with discretion. 

###### 6 
Surely he will never be shaken; The righteous will be in everlasting remembrance. 

###### 7 
He will not be afraid of evil tidings; His heart is steadfast, trusting in the Lord. 

###### 8 
His heart _is_ established; He will not be afraid, Until he sees _his desire_ upon his enemies. 

###### 9 
He has dispersed abroad, He has given to the poor; His righteousness endures forever; His [^c]horn will be exalted with honor. 

###### 10 
The wicked will see _it_ and be grieved; He will gnash his teeth and melt away; The desire of the wicked shall perish. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 112:1 Heb. _Hallelujah_ [^b]: Psalm 112:3 _stands_ [^c]: Psalm 112:9 Strength
