---
Aliases: [Psalms 108]
previous: ['Ps 107']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 109']
---
# Psalms 108

***


###### 1 
O God, my heart is steadfast; I will sing and give praise, even with my glory. 

###### 2 
Awake, lute and harp! I will awaken the dawn. 

###### 3 
I will praise You, O Lord, among the peoples, And I will sing praises to You among the nations. 

###### 4 
For Your mercy _is_ great above the [^a]heavens, And Your truth _reaches_ to the clouds. 

###### 5 
Be exalted, O God, above the heavens, And Your glory above all the earth; 

###### 6 
That Your beloved may be delivered, Save _with_ Your right hand, and [^b]hear me. 

###### 7 
God has spoken in His holiness: "I will rejoice; I will divide Shechem And measure out the Valley of Succoth. 

###### 8 
Gilead _is_ Mine; Manasseh _is_ Mine; Ephraim also _is_ the [^c]helmet for My head; Judah _is_ My lawgiver. 

###### 9 
Moab _is_ My washpot; Over Edom I will cast My shoe; Over Philistia I will triumph." 

###### 10 
Who will bring me _into_ the strong city? Who will lead me to Edom? 

###### 11 
_Is it_ not _You,_ O God, _who_ cast us off? And _You,_ O God, _who_ did not go out with our armies? 

###### 12 
Give us help from trouble, For the help of man is useless. 

###### 13 
Through God we will do valiantly, For _it is_ He _who_ shall tread down our enemies. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 108:4 _skies_ [^b]: Psalm 108:6 Lit. _answer_ [^c]: Psalm 108:8 Lit. _protection_
