---
Aliases: [Psalms 137]
previous: ['Ps 136']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 138']
---
# Psalms 137

***


###### 1 
By the rivers of Babylon, There we sat down, yea, we wept When we remembered Zion. 

###### 2 
We hung our harps Upon the willows in the midst of it. 

###### 3 
For there those who carried us away captive asked of us a song, And those who plundered us _requested_ mirth, _Saying,_ "Sing us _one_ of the songs of Zion!" 

###### 4 
How shall we sing the Lord's song In a foreign land? 

###### 5 
If I forget you, O Jerusalem, Let my right hand forget _its skill!_ 

###### 6 
If I do not remember you, Let my tongue cling to the roof of my mouth-- If I do not exalt Jerusalem Above my chief joy. 

###### 7 
Remember, O Lord, against the sons of Edom The day of Jerusalem, Who said, [^a]"Raze _it,_ raze _it,_ To its very foundation!" 

###### 8 
O daughter of Babylon, who are to be destroyed, Happy the one who repays you as you have served us! 

###### 9 
Happy the one who takes and dashes Your little ones against the rock! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 137:7 Lit. _Make bare_
