---
Aliases: [Psalms 141]
previous: ['Ps 140']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 142']
---
# Psalms 141

***


###### 1 
Lord, I cry out to You; Make haste to me! Give ear to my voice when I cry out to You. 

###### 2 
Let my prayer be set before You _as_ incense, The lifting up of my hands _as_ the evening sacrifice. 

###### 3 
Set a guard, O Lord, over my mouth; Keep watch over the door of my lips. 

###### 4 
Do not incline my heart to any evil thing, To practice wicked works With men who work iniquity; And do not let me eat of their delicacies. 

###### 5 
Let the righteous strike me; _It shall be_ a kindness. And let him rebuke me; _It shall be_ as excellent oil; Let my head not refuse it. For still my prayer _is_ against the deeds of the wicked. 

###### 6 
Their judges are overthrown by the sides of the [^a]cliff, And they hear my words, for they are sweet. 

###### 7 
Our bones are scattered at the mouth of the grave, As when one plows and breaks up the earth. 

###### 8 
But my eyes _are_ upon You, O God the Lord; In You I take refuge; [^b]Do not leave my soul destitute. 

###### 9 
Keep me from the snares they have laid for me, And from the traps of the workers of iniquity. 

###### 10 
Let the wicked fall into their own nets, While I escape safely. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 141:6 _rock_ [^b]: Psalm 141:8 Lit. _Do not make my soul bare_
