---
Aliases: [Psalms 18]
previous: ['Ps 17']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 19']
---
# Psalms 18

***


###### 1 
I will love You, O Lord, my strength. 

###### 2 
The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer; My God, my [^a]strength, in whom I will trust; My shield and the [^b]horn of my salvation, my stronghold. 

###### 3 
I will call upon the Lord, _who is worthy_ to be praised; So shall I be saved from my enemies. 

###### 4 
The pangs of death surrounded me, And the floods of [^c]ungodliness made me afraid. 

###### 5 
The sorrows of Sheol surrounded me; The snares of death confronted me. 

###### 6 
In my distress I called upon the Lord, And cried out to my God; He heard my voice from His temple, And my cry came before Him, _even_ to His ears. 

###### 7 
Then the earth shook and trembled; The foundations of the hills also quaked and were shaken, Because He was angry. 

###### 8 
Smoke went up from His nostrils, And devouring fire from His mouth; Coals were kindled by it. 

###### 9 
He bowed the heavens also, and came down With darkness under His feet. 

###### 10 
And He rode upon a cherub, and flew; He flew upon the wings of the wind. 

###### 11 
He made darkness His secret place; His canopy around Him _was_ dark waters _And_ thick clouds of the skies. 

###### 12 
From the brightness before Him, His thick clouds passed with hailstones and coals of fire. 

###### 13 
The Lord thundered from heaven, And the Most High uttered His voice, [^d]Hailstones and coals of fire. 

###### 14 
He sent out His arrows and scattered [^e]the foe, Lightnings in abundance, and He vanquished them. 

###### 15 
Then the channels of the sea were seen, The foundations of the world were uncovered At Your rebuke, O Lord, At the blast of the breath of Your nostrils. 

###### 16 
He sent from above, He took me; He drew me out of many waters. 

###### 17 
He delivered me from my strong enemy, From those who hated me, For they were too strong for me. 

###### 18 
They confronted me in the day of my calamity, But the Lord was my support. 

###### 19 
He also brought me out into a broad place; He delivered me because He delighted in me. 

###### 20 
The Lord rewarded me according to my righteousness; According to the cleanness of my hands He has recompensed me. 

###### 21 
For I have kept the ways of the Lord, And have not wickedly departed from my God. 

###### 22 
For all His judgments _were_ before me, And I did not put away His statutes from me. 

###### 23 
I was also blameless [^f]before Him, And I kept myself from my iniquity. 

###### 24 
Therefore the Lord has recompensed me according to my righteousness, According to the cleanness of my hands in His sight. 

###### 25 
With the merciful You will show Yourself merciful; With a blameless man You will show Yourself blameless; 

###### 26 
With the pure You will show Yourself pure; And with the devious You will show Yourself shrewd. 

###### 27 
For You will save the humble people, But will bring down haughty looks. 

###### 28 
For You will light my lamp; The Lord my God will enlighten my darkness. 

###### 29 
For by You I can [^g]run against a troop, By my God I can leap over a wall. 

###### 30 
_As for_ God, His way _is_ perfect; The word of the Lord is [^h]proven; He _is_ a shield to all who trust in Him. 

###### 31 
For who _is_ God, except the Lord? And who _is_ a rock, except our God? 

###### 32 
_It is_ God who arms me with strength, And makes my way perfect. 

###### 33 
He makes my feet like the _feet of_ deer, And sets me on my high places. 

###### 34 
He teaches my hands to make war, So that my arms can bend a bow of bronze. 

###### 35 
You have also given me the shield of Your salvation; Your right hand has held me up, Your gentleness has made me great. 

###### 36 
You enlarged my path under me, So my feet did not slip. 

###### 37 
I have pursued my enemies and overtaken them; Neither did I turn back again till they were destroyed. 

###### 38 
I have wounded them, So that they could not rise; They have fallen under my feet. 

###### 39 
For You have armed me with strength for the battle; You have [^i]subdued under me those who rose up against me. 

###### 40 
You have also given me the necks of my enemies, So that I destroyed those who hated me. 

###### 41 
They cried out, but _there was_ none to save; _Even_ to the Lord, but He did not answer them. 

###### 42 
Then I beat them as fine as the dust before the wind; I cast them out like dirt in the streets. 

###### 43 
You have delivered me from the strivings of the people; You have made me the head of the [^j]nations; A people I have not known shall serve me. 

###### 44 
As soon as they hear of me they obey me; The foreigners [^k]submit to me. 

###### 45 
The foreigners fade away, And come frightened from their hideouts. 

###### 46 
The Lord lives! Blessed _be_ my Rock! Let the God of my salvation be exalted. 

###### 47 
_It is_ God who avenges me, And subdues the peoples under me; 

###### 48 
He delivers me from my enemies. You also lift me up above those who rise against me; You have delivered me from the violent man. 

###### 49 
Therefore I will give thanks to You, O Lord, among the [^l]Gentiles, And sing praises to Your name. 

###### 50 
Great deliverance He gives to His king, And shows mercy to His anointed, To David and his [^m]descendants forevermore. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 18:2 Lit. _rock_ [^b]: Psalm 18:2 Strength [^c]: Psalm 18:4 Lit. _Belial_ [^d]: Psalm 18:13 So with MT, Tg., Vg.; a few Heb. mss., LXX omit _Hailstones and coals of fire_ [^e]: Psalm 18:14 Lit. _them_ [^f]: Psalm 18:23 _with_ [^g]: Psalm 18:29 Or _run through_ [^h]: Psalm 18:30 Lit. _refined_ [^i]: Psalm 18:39 Lit. _caused to bow_ [^j]: Psalm 18:43 _Gentiles_ [^k]: Psalm 18:44 _feign submission_ [^l]: Psalm 18:49 _nations_ [^m]: Psalm 18:50 Lit. _seed_
