---
Aliases: [Psalms 149]
previous: ['Ps 148']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 150']
---
# Psalms 149

***


###### 1 
Praise[^a] the Lord! Sing to the Lord a new song, _And_ His praise in the assembly of saints. 

###### 2 
Let Israel rejoice in their Maker; Let the children of Zion be joyful in their King. 

###### 3 
Let them praise His name with the dance; Let them sing praises to Him with the timbrel and harp. 

###### 4 
For the Lord takes pleasure in His people; He will beautify the [^b]humble with salvation. 

###### 5 
Let the saints be joyful in glory; Let them sing aloud on their beds. 

###### 6 
_Let_ the high praises of God _be_ in their mouth, And a two-edged sword in their hand, 

###### 7 
To execute vengeance on the nations, And punishments on the peoples; 

###### 8 
To bind their kings with chains, And their nobles with fetters of iron; 

###### 9 
To execute on them the written judgment-- This honor have all His saints. [^c]Praise the Lord! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 149:1 Heb. _Hallelujah_ [^b]: Psalm 149:4 _meek_ [^c]: Psalm 149:9 Heb. _Hallelujah_
