---
Aliases: [Psalms 148]
previous: ['Ps 147']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 149']
---
# Psalms 148

***


###### 1 
Praise[^a] the Lord! Praise the Lord from the heavens; Praise Him in the heights! 

###### 2 
Praise Him, all His angels; Praise Him, all His hosts! 

###### 3 
Praise Him, sun and moon; Praise Him, all you stars of light! 

###### 4 
Praise Him, you heavens of heavens, And you waters above the heavens! 

###### 5 
Let them praise the name of the Lord, For He commanded and they were created. 

###### 6 
He also established them forever and ever; He made a decree which shall not pass away. 

###### 7 
Praise the Lord from the earth, You great sea creatures and all the depths; 

###### 8 
Fire and hail, snow and clouds; Stormy wind, fulfilling His word; 

###### 9 
Mountains and all hills; Fruitful trees and all cedars; 

###### 10 
Beasts and all cattle; Creeping things and flying fowl; 

###### 11 
Kings of the earth and all peoples; Princes and all judges of the earth; 

###### 12 
Both young men and maidens; Old men and children. 

###### 13 
Let them praise the name of the Lord, For His name alone is exalted; His glory _is_ above the earth and heaven. 

###### 14 
And He has exalted the [^b]horn of His people, The praise of all His saints-- Of the children of Israel, A people near to Him. [^c]Praise the Lord! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 148:1 Heb. _Hallelujah_ [^b]: Psalm 148:14 Strength or dominion [^c]: Psalm 148:14 Heb. _Hallelujah_
