---
Aliases: [Psalms 29]
previous: ['Ps 28']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 30']
---
# Psalms 29

***


###### 1 
Give[^a] unto the Lord, O you mighty ones, Give unto the Lord glory and strength. 

###### 2 
[^b]Give unto the Lord the glory [^c]due to His name; Worship the Lord in the [^d]beauty of holiness. 

###### 3 
The voice of the Lord _is_ over the waters; The God of glory thunders; The Lord _is_ over many waters. 

###### 4 
The voice of the Lord _is_ powerful; The voice of the Lord _is_ full of majesty. 

###### 5 
The voice of the Lord breaks the cedars, Yes, the Lord splinters the cedars of Lebanon. 

###### 6 
He makes them also skip like a calf, Lebanon and Sirion like a young wild ox. 

###### 7 
The voice of the Lord [^e]divides the flames of fire. 

###### 8 
The voice of the Lord shakes the wilderness; The Lord shakes the Wilderness of Kadesh. 

###### 9 
The voice of the Lord makes the deer give birth, And strips the forests bare; And in His temple everyone says, "Glory!" 

###### 10 
The Lord sat _enthroned_ at the Flood, And the Lord sits as King forever. 

###### 11 
The Lord will give strength to His people; The Lord will bless His people with peace. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 29:1 _Ascribe_ [^b]: Psalm 29:2 _Ascribe_ [^c]: Psalm 29:2 Lit. _of His name_ [^d]: Psalm 29:2 _majesty_ [^e]: Psalm 29:7 _stirs up,_ lit. _hews out_
