---
Aliases: [Psalms 26]
previous: ['Ps 25']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 27']
---
# Psalms 26

***


###### 1 
Vindicate me, O Lord, For I have walked in my integrity. I have also trusted in the Lord; I shall not slip. 

###### 2 
Examine me, O Lord, and [^a]prove me; Try my mind and my heart. 

###### 3 
For Your lovingkindness _is_ before my eyes, And I have walked in Your truth. 

###### 4 
I have not sat with idolatrous mortals, Nor will I go in with hypocrites. 

###### 5 
I have hated the assembly of evildoers, And will not sit with the wicked. 

###### 6 
I will wash my hands in innocence; So I will go about Your altar, O Lord, 

###### 7 
That I may proclaim with the voice of thanksgiving, And tell of all Your wondrous works. 

###### 8 
Lord, I have loved the habitation of Your house, And the place [^b]where Your glory dwells. 

###### 9 
Do[^c] not gather my soul with sinners, Nor my life with bloodthirsty men, 

###### 10 
In whose hands _is_ a sinister scheme, And whose right hand is full of bribes. 

###### 11 
But as for me, I will walk in my integrity; Redeem me and be merciful to me. 

###### 12 
My foot stands in an even place; In the congregations I will bless the Lord. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 26:2 _test me_ [^b]: Psalm 26:8 Lit. _of the tabernacle of Your glory_ [^c]: Psalm 26:9 _Do not take away_
