---
Aliases: [Psalms 42]
previous: ['Ps 41']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 43']
---
# Psalms 42

***


###### 1 
As the deer [^b]pants for the water brooks, So pants my soul for You, O God. 

###### 2 
My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and [^c]appear before God? 

###### 3 
My tears have been my food day and night, While they continually say to me, "Where _is_ your God?" 

###### 4 
When I remember these _things,_ I pour out my soul within me. For I used to go with the multitude; I went with them to the house of God, With the voice of joy and praise, With a multitude that kept a pilgrim feast. 

###### 5 
Why are you [^d]cast down, O my soul? And _why_ are you disquieted within me? Hope in God, for I shall yet praise Him [^e]_For_ the help of His countenance. 

###### 6 
[^f]O my God, my soul is cast down within me; Therefore I will remember You from the land of the Jordan, And from the heights of Hermon, From [^g]the Hill Mizar. 

###### 7 
Deep calls unto deep at the noise of Your waterfalls; All Your waves and billows have gone over me. 

###### 8 
The Lord will command His lovingkindness in the daytime, And in the night His song _shall be_ with me-- A prayer to the God of my life. 

###### 9 
I will say to God my Rock, "Why have You forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?" 

###### 10 
_As_ with a [^h]breaking of my bones, My enemies [^i]reproach me, While they say to me all day long, "Where _is_ your God?" 

###### 11 
Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you disquieted within me? Hope in God; For I shall yet praise Him, The [^j]help of my countenance and my God. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 42:1 Heb. _Maschil_ [^b]: Psalm 42:1 Lit. _longs for_ [^c]: Psalm 42:2 So with MT, Vg.; some Heb. mss., LXX, Syr., Tg. _I see the face of God_ [^d]: Psalm 42:5 Lit. _bowed down_ [^e]: Psalm 42:5 So with MT, Tg.; a few Heb. mss., LXX, Syr., Vg. _The help of my countenance, my God_ [^f]: Psalm 42:6 So with MT, Tg.; a few Heb. mss., LXX, Syr., Vg. put _my God_ at the end of v. [5] [^g]: Psalm 42:6 Or _Mount_ [^h]: Psalm 42:10 Lit. _shattering_ [^i]: Psalm 42:10 _revile_ [^j]: Psalm 42:11 Lit. _salvation_
