---
Aliases: [Psalms 45]
previous: ['Ps 44']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 46']
---
# Psalms 45

***


###### 1 
My heart is overflowing with a good theme; I recite my composition concerning the King; My tongue _is_ the pen of a [^c]ready writer. 

###### 2 
You are fairer than the sons of men; Grace is poured upon Your lips; Therefore God has blessed You forever. 

###### 3 
[^d]Gird Your sword upon _Your_ thigh, O Mighty One, With Your glory and Your majesty. 

###### 4 
And in Your majesty ride prosperously because of truth, humility, _and_ righteousness; And Your right hand shall teach You awesome things. 

###### 5 
Your arrows _are_ sharp in the heart of the King's enemies; The peoples fall under You. 

###### 6 
Your throne, O God, _is_ forever and ever; A scepter of righteousness _is_ the scepter of Your kingdom. 

###### 7 
You love righteousness and hate wickedness; Therefore God, Your God, has anointed You With the oil of gladness more than Your companions. 

###### 8 
All Your garments _are_ _scented_ with myrrh and aloes _and_ cassia, Out of the ivory palaces, by which they have made You glad. 

###### 9 
Kings' daughters _are_ among Your honorable women; At Your right hand stands the queen in gold from Ophir. 

###### 10 
Listen, O daughter, Consider and incline your ear; Forget your own people also, and your father's house; 

###### 11 
So the King will greatly desire your beauty; Because He _is_ your Lord, worship Him. 

###### 12 
And the daughter of Tyre _will come_ with a gift; The rich among the people will seek your favor. 

###### 13 
The royal daughter _is_ all glorious within _the palace;_ Her clothing _is_ woven with gold. 

###### 14 
She shall be brought to the King in robes of many colors; The virgins, her companions who follow her, shall be brought to You. 

###### 15 
With gladness and rejoicing they shall be brought; They shall enter the King's palace. 

###### 16 
Instead of Your fathers shall be Your sons, Whom You shall make princes in all the earth. 

###### 17 
I will make Your name to be remembered in all generations; Therefore the people shall praise You forever and ever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 45:1 Heb. _Shoshannim_ [^b]: Psalm 45:1 Heb. _Maschil_ [^c]: Psalm 45:1 _skillful_ [^d]: Psalm 45:3 _Belt on_
