---
Aliases: [Psalms 58]
previous: ['Ps 57']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 59']
---
# Psalms 58

***


###### 1 
Do you indeed speak righteousness, you silent ones? Do you judge uprightly, you sons of men? 

###### 2 
No, in heart you work wickedness; You weigh out the violence of your hands in the earth. 

###### 3 
The wicked are estranged from the womb; They go astray as soon as they are born, speaking lies. 

###### 4 
Their poison _is_ like the poison of a serpent; _They are_ like the deaf cobra _that_ stops its ear, 

###### 5 
Which will not heed the voice of charmers, Charming ever so skillfully. 

###### 6 
Break[^b] their teeth in their mouth, O God! Break out the fangs of the young lions, O Lord! 

###### 7 
Let them flow away as waters _which_ run continually; _When_ he bends _his bow,_ Let his arrows be as if cut in pieces. 

###### 8 
_Let them be_ like a snail which melts away as it goes, _Like_ a stillborn child of a woman, that they may not see the sun. 

###### 9 
Before your pots can feel _the burning_ thorns, He shall take them away as with a whirlwind, As in His living and burning wrath. 

###### 10 
The righteous shall rejoice when he sees the vengeance; He shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked, 

###### 11 
So that men will say, "Surely _there is_ a reward for the righteous; Surely He is God who judges in the earth." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 58:1 Heb. _Al Tashcheth_ [^b]: Psalm 58:6 _Break away_
