---
Aliases: [Psalms 63]
previous: ['Ps 62']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 64']
---
# Psalms 63

***


###### 1 
O God, You _are_ my God; Early will I seek You; My soul thirsts for You; My flesh longs for You In a dry and thirsty land Where there is no water. 

###### 2 
So I have looked for You in the sanctuary, To see Your power and Your glory. 

###### 3 
Because Your lovingkindness _is_ better than life, My lips shall praise You. 

###### 4 
Thus I will bless You while I live; I will lift up my hands in Your name. 

###### 5 
My soul shall be satisfied as with [^a]marrow and [^b]fatness, And my mouth shall praise _You_ with joyful lips. 

###### 6 
When I remember You on my bed, I meditate on You in the _night_ watches. 

###### 7 
Because You have been my help, Therefore in the shadow of Your wings I will rejoice. 

###### 8 
My soul follows close behind You; Your right hand upholds me. 

###### 9 
But those _who_ seek my life, to destroy _it,_ Shall go into the lower parts of the earth. 

###### 10 
They shall [^c]fall by the sword; They shall be [^d]a portion for jackals. 

###### 11 
But the king shall rejoice in God; Everyone who swears by Him shall glory; But the mouth of those who speak lies shall be stopped. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 63:5 Lit. _fat_ [^b]: Psalm 63:5 Abundance [^c]: Psalm 63:10 Lit. _pour him out by the hand of the sword_ [^d]: Psalm 63:10 Prey
