---
Aliases: [Psalms 71]
previous: ['Ps 70']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 72']
---
# Psalms 71

***


###### 1 
In You, O Lord, I put my trust; Let me never be put to shame. 

###### 2 
Deliver me in Your righteousness, and cause me to escape; Incline Your ear to me, and save me. 

###### 3 
Be my [^a]strong refuge, To which I may resort continually; You have given the commandment to save me, For You _are_ my rock and my fortress. 

###### 4 
Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, Out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man. 

###### 5 
For You are my hope, O Lord God; _You are_ my trust from my youth. 

###### 6 
By You I have been [^b]upheld from birth; You are He who took me out of my mother's womb. My praise _shall be_ continually of You. 

###### 7 
I have become as a wonder to many, But You _are_ my strong refuge. 

###### 8 
Let my mouth be filled _with_ Your praise _And with_ Your glory all the day. 

###### 9 
Do not cast me off in the time of old age; Do not forsake me when my strength fails. 

###### 10 
For my enemies speak against me; And those who lie in wait for my life take counsel together, 

###### 11 
Saying, "God has forsaken him; Pursue and take him, for _there is_ none to deliver _him._" 

###### 12 
O God, do not be far from me; O my God, make haste to help me! 

###### 13 
Let them be [^c]confounded _and_ consumed Who are adversaries of my life; Let them be covered _with_ reproach and dishonor Who seek my hurt. 

###### 14 
But I will hope continually, And will praise You yet more and more. 

###### 15 
My mouth shall tell of Your righteousness _And_ Your salvation all the day, For I do not know _their_ limits. 

###### 16 
I will go in the strength of the Lord God; I will make mention of Your righteousness, of Yours only. 

###### 17 
O God, You have taught me from my youth; And to this _day_ I declare Your wondrous works. 

###### 18 
Now also when _I am_ old and grayheaded, O God, do not forsake me, Until I declare Your strength to _this_ generation, Your power to everyone _who_ is to come. 

###### 19 
Also Your righteousness, O God, _is_ [^d]very high, You who have done great things; O God, who _is_ like You? 

###### 20 
_You,_ who have shown me great and severe troubles, Shall revive me again, And bring me up again from the depths of the earth. 

###### 21 
You shall increase my greatness, And comfort me on every side. 

###### 22 
Also with the lute I will praise You-- _And_ Your faithfulness, O my God! To You I will sing with the harp, O Holy One of Israel. 

###### 23 
My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing to You, And my soul, which You have redeemed. 

###### 24 
My tongue also shall talk of Your righteousness all the day long; For they are confounded, For they are brought to shame Who seek my hurt. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 71:3 Lit. _rock of refuge_ or _rock of habitation_ [^b]: Psalm 71:6 _sustained from the womb_ [^c]: Psalm 71:13 _ashamed_ [^d]: Psalm 71:19 _great,_ lit. _to the height_ of heaven
