---
Aliases: [Psalms 85]
previous: ['Ps 84']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 86']
---
# Psalms 85

***


###### 1 
Lord, You have been favorable to Your land; You have brought back the captivity of Jacob. 

###### 2 
You have forgiven the iniquity of Your people; You have covered all their sin. <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 3 
You have taken away all Your wrath; You have turned from the fierceness of Your anger. 

###### 4 
Restore us, O God of our salvation, And cause Your anger toward us to cease. 

###### 5 
Will You be angry with us forever? Will You prolong Your anger to all generations? 

###### 6 
Will You not revive us again, That Your people may rejoice in You? 

###### 7 
Show us Your mercy, Lord, And grant us Your salvation. 

###### 8 
I will hear what God the Lord will speak, For He will speak peace To His people and to His saints; But let them not turn back to [^a]folly. 

###### 9 
Surely His salvation _is_ near to those who fear Him, That glory may dwell in our land. 

###### 10 
Mercy and truth have met together; Righteousness and peace have kissed. 

###### 11 
Truth shall spring out of the earth, And righteousness shall look down from heaven. 

###### 12 
Yes, the Lord will give _what is_ good; And our land will yield its increase. 

###### 13 
Righteousness will go before Him, And shall make His footsteps _our_ pathway. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 85:8 _foolishness_
