---
Aliases: [Psalms 89]
previous: ['Ps 88']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 90']
---
# Psalms 89

***


###### 1 
I will sing of the mercies of the Lord forever; With my mouth will I make known Your faithfulness to all generations. 

###### 2 
For I have said, "Mercy shall be built up forever; Your faithfulness You shall establish in the very heavens." 

###### 3 
"I have made a covenant with My chosen, I have sworn to My servant David: 

###### 4 
'Your seed I will establish forever, And build up your throne to all generations.' " <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 5 
And the heavens will praise Your wonders, O Lord; Your faithfulness also in the assembly of the saints. 

###### 6 
For who in the heavens can be compared to the Lord? _Who_ among the sons of the mighty can be likened to the Lord? 

###### 7 
God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints, And to be held in reverence by all _those_ around Him. 

###### 8 
O Lord God of hosts, Who _is_ mighty like You, O Lord? Your faithfulness also surrounds You. 

###### 9 
You rule the raging of the sea; When its waves rise, You still them. 

###### 10 
You have broken [^b]Rahab in pieces, as one who is slain; You have scattered Your enemies with Your mighty arm. 

###### 11 
The heavens _are_ Yours, the earth also _is_ Yours; The world and all its fullness, You have founded them. 

###### 12 
The north and the south, You have created them; Tabor and Hermon rejoice in Your name. 

###### 13 
You have a mighty arm; Strong is Your hand, _and_ high is Your right hand. 

###### 14 
Righteousness and justice _are_ the foundation of Your throne; Mercy and truth go before Your face. 

###### 15 
Blessed _are_ the people who know the joyful sound! They walk, O Lord, in the light of Your countenance. 

###### 16 
In Your name they rejoice all day long, And in Your righteousness they are exalted. 

###### 17 
For You _are_ the glory of their strength, And in Your favor our [^c]horn is exalted. 

###### 18 
For our shield _belongs_ to the Lord, And our king to the Holy One of Israel. 

###### 19 
Then You spoke in a vision to Your [^d]holy one, And said: "I have given help to _one who is_ mighty; I have exalted one chosen from the people. 

###### 20 
I have found My servant David; With My holy oil I have anointed him, 

###### 21 
With whom My hand shall be established; Also My arm shall strengthen him. 

###### 22 
The enemy shall not [^e]outwit him, Nor the son of wickedness afflict him. 

###### 23 
I will beat down his foes before his face, And plague those who hate him. 

###### 24 
"But My faithfulness and My mercy _shall be_ with him, And in My name his horn shall be exalted. 

###### 25 
Also I will set his hand over the sea, And his right hand over the rivers. 

###### 26 
He shall cry to Me, 'You _are_ my Father, My God, and the rock of my salvation.' 

###### 27 
Also I will make him _My_ firstborn, The highest of the kings of the earth. 

###### 28 
My mercy I will keep for him forever, And My covenant shall stand firm with him. 

###### 29 
His seed also I will make _to endure_ forever, And his throne as the days of heaven. 

###### 30 
"If his sons forsake My law And do not walk in My judgments, 

###### 31 
If they [^f]break My statutes And do not keep My commandments, 

###### 32 
Then I will punish their transgression with the rod, And their iniquity with stripes. 

###### 33 
Nevertheless My lovingkindness I will not [^g]utterly take from him, Nor [^h]allow My faithfulness to fail. 

###### 34 
My covenant I will not break, Nor alter the word that has gone out of My lips. 

###### 35 
Once I have sworn by My holiness; I will not lie to David: 

###### 36 
His seed shall endure forever, And his throne as the sun before Me; 

###### 37 
It shall be established forever like the moon, Even _like_ the faithful witness in the sky." <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 38 
But You have cast off and abhorred,[^i] You have been furious with Your [^j]anointed. 

###### 39 
You have renounced the covenant of Your servant; You have [^k]profaned his crown _by casting it_ to the ground. 

###### 40 
You have broken down all his hedges; You have brought his [^l]strongholds to ruin. 

###### 41 
All who pass by the way plunder him; He is a reproach to his neighbors. 

###### 42 
You have exalted the right hand of his adversaries; You have made all his enemies rejoice. 

###### 43 
You have also turned back the edge of his sword, And have not sustained him in the battle. 

###### 44 
You have made his [^m]glory cease, And cast his throne down to the ground. 

###### 45 
The days of his youth You have shortened; You have covered him with shame. <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 46 
How long, Lord? Will You hide Yourself forever? Will Your wrath burn like fire? 

###### 47 
Remember how short my time is; For what futility have You created all the children of men? 

###### 48 
What man can live and not [^n]see death? Can he deliver his life from the power of [^o]the grave? <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 49 
Lord, where _are_ Your former lovingkindnesses, _Which_ You swore to David in Your truth? 

###### 50 
Remember, Lord, the reproach of Your servants-- _How_ I bear in my bosom _the reproach of_ all the many peoples, 

###### 51 
With which Your enemies have reproached, O Lord, With which they have reproached the footsteps of Your [^p]anointed. 

###### 52 
Blessed _be_ the Lord forevermore! Amen and Amen. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 89:1 Heb. _Maschil_ [^b]: Psalm 89:10 Egypt [^c]: Psalm 89:17 Strength [^d]: Psalm 89:19 So with many Heb. mss.; MT, LXX, Tg., Vg. _holy ones_ [^e]: Psalm 89:22 Or _exact usury from him_ [^f]: Psalm 89:31 _profane_ [^g]: Psalm 89:33 Lit. _break off_ [^h]: Psalm 89:33 Lit. _deal falsely with My faithfulness_ [^i]: Psalm 89:38 _rejected_ [^j]: Psalm 89:38 Commissioned one, Heb. _messiah_ [^k]: Psalm 89:39 _defiled_ [^l]: Psalm 89:40 _fortresses_ [^m]: Psalm 89:44 _splendor_ or _brightness_ [^n]: Psalm 89:48 _experience death_ [^o]: Psalm 89:48 Or _Sheol_ [^p]: Psalm 89:51 Commissioned one, Heb. _messiah_
