---
Aliases: [Psalms 84]
previous: ['Ps 83']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 85']
---
# Psalms 84

***


###### 1 
How lovely [^b]_is_ Your tabernacle, O Lord of hosts! 

###### 2 
My soul longs, yes, even faints For the courts of the Lord; My heart and my flesh cry out for the living God. 

###### 3 
Even the sparrow has found a home, And the swallow a nest for herself, Where she may lay her young-- _Even_ Your altars, O Lord of hosts, My King and my God. 

###### 4 
Blessed _are_ those who dwell in Your house; They will still be praising You. <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 5 
Blessed _is_ the man whose strength _is_ in You, Whose heart _is_ set on pilgrimage. 

###### 6 
_As they_ pass through the Valley of [^c]Baca, They make it a spring; The rain also covers it with [^d]pools. 

###### 7 
They go from strength to strength; [^e]_Each one_ appears before God in Zion. 

###### 8 
O Lord God of hosts, hear my prayer; Give ear, O God of Jacob! <i class="selah">Selah_ 

###### 9 
O God, behold our shield, And look upon the face of Your [^f]anointed. 

###### 10 
For a day in Your courts _is_ better than a thousand. I would rather [^g]be a doorkeeper in the house of my God Than dwell in the tents of wickedness. 

###### 11 
For the Lord God _is_ a sun and shield; The Lord will give grace and glory; No good _thing_ will He withhold From those who walk uprightly. 

###### 12 
O Lord of hosts, Blessed _is_ the man who trusts in You! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 84:1 Heb. _Al Gittith_ [^b]: Psalm 84:1 _are Your dwellings_ [^c]: Psalm 84:6 Lit. _Weeping_ [^d]: Psalm 84:6 Or _blessings_ [^e]: Psalm 84:7 LXX, Syr., Vg. _The God of gods shall be seen_ [^f]: Psalm 84:9 Commissioned one, Heb. _messiah_ [^g]: Psalm 84:10 _stand at the threshold_
