---
Aliases: [Psalms 90]
previous: ['Ps 89']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 91']
---
# Psalms 90

***


###### 1 
Lord, You have been our [^a]dwelling place in all generations. 

###### 2 
Before the mountains were brought forth, Or ever You [^b]had formed the earth and the world, Even from everlasting to everlasting, You _are_ God. 

###### 3 
You turn man to destruction, And say, "Return, O children of men." 

###### 4 
For a thousand years in Your sight _Are_ like yesterday when it is past, And _like_ a watch in the night. 

###### 5 
You carry them away _like_ a flood; _They are_ like a sleep. In the morning they are like grass _which_ grows up: 

###### 6 
In the morning it flourishes and grows up; In the evening it is cut down and withers. 

###### 7 
For we have been consumed by Your anger, And by Your wrath we are terrified. 

###### 8 
You have set our iniquities before You, Our secret _sins_ in the light of Your countenance. 

###### 9 
For all our days have passed away in Your wrath; We finish our years like a sigh. 

###### 10 
The days of our lives _are_ seventy years; And if by reason of strength _they are_ eighty years, Yet their boast _is_ only labor and sorrow; For it is soon cut off, and we fly away. 

###### 11 
Who knows the power of Your anger? For as the fear of You, _so is_ Your wrath. 

###### 12 
So teach _us_ to number our days, That we may gain a heart of wisdom. 

###### 13 
Return, O Lord! How long? And have compassion on Your servants. 

###### 14 
Oh, satisfy us early with Your mercy, That we may rejoice and be glad all our days! 

###### 15 
Make us glad according to the days _in which_ You have afflicted us, The years _in which_ we have seen evil. 

###### 16 
Let Your work appear to Your servants, And Your glory to their children. 

###### 17 
And let the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us, And establish the work of our hands for us; Yes, establish the work of our hands. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 90:1 LXX, Tg., Vg. _refuge_ [^b]: Psalm 90:2 Lit. _gave birth to_
