---
Aliases: [Psalms 94]
previous: ['Ps 93']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 95']
---
# Psalms 94

***


###### 1 
O Lord God, to whom vengeance belongs-- O God, to whom vengeance belongs, shine forth! 

###### 2 
Rise up, O Judge of the earth; [^a]Render punishment to the proud. 

###### 3 
Lord, how long will the wicked, How long will the wicked triumph? 

###### 4 
They utter speech, _and_ speak insolent things; All the workers of iniquity boast in themselves. 

###### 5 
They break in pieces Your people, O Lord, And afflict Your heritage. 

###### 6 
They slay the widow and the stranger, And murder the fatherless. 

###### 7 
Yet they say, "The Lord does not see, Nor does the God of Jacob [^b]understand." 

###### 8 
Understand, you senseless among the people; And _you_ fools, when will you be wise? 

###### 9 
He who planted the ear, shall He not hear? He who formed the eye, shall He not see? 

###### 10 
He who [^c]instructs the [^d]nations, shall He not correct, He who teaches man knowledge? 

###### 11 
The Lord knows the thoughts of man, That they _are_ futile. 

###### 12 
Blessed _is_ the man whom You instruct, O Lord, And teach out of Your law, 

###### 13 
That You may give him [^e]rest from the days of adversity, Until the pit is dug for the wicked. 

###### 14 
For the Lord will not [^f]cast off His people, Nor will He forsake His inheritance. 

###### 15 
But judgment will return to righteousness, And all the upright in heart will follow it. 

###### 16 
Who will rise up for me against the evildoers? Who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity? 

###### 17 
Unless the Lord _had been_ my help, My soul would soon have settled in silence. 

###### 18 
If I say, "My foot slips," Your mercy, O Lord, will hold me up. 

###### 19 
In the multitude of my anxieties within me, Your comforts delight my soul. 

###### 20 
Shall the throne of iniquity, which devises evil by law, Have fellowship with You? 

###### 21 
They gather together against the life of the righteous, And condemn innocent blood. 

###### 22 
But the Lord has been my defense, And my God the rock of my refuge. 

###### 23 
He has brought on them their own iniquity, And shall [^g]cut them off in their own wickedness; The Lord our God shall cut them off. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 94:2 _Repay with_ [^b]: Psalm 94:7 _pay attention_ [^c]: Psalm 94:10 _disciplines_ [^d]: Psalm 94:10 _Gentiles_ [^e]: Psalm 94:13 _relief_ [^f]: Psalm 94:14 _abandon_ [^g]: Psalm 94:23 _destroy them_
