---
Aliases: [Psalms 99]
previous: ['Ps 98']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 100']
---
# Psalms 99

***


###### 1 
The Lord reigns; Let the peoples tremble! He dwells _between_ the cherubim; Let the earth be [^a]moved! 

###### 2 
The Lord _is_ great in Zion, And He _is_ high above all the peoples. 

###### 3 
Let them praise Your great and awesome name-- [^b]He _is_ holy. 

###### 4 
The King's strength also loves justice; You have established equity; You have executed justice and righteousness in Jacob. 

###### 5 
Exalt the Lord our God, And worship at His footstool-- He _is_ holy. 

###### 6 
Moses and Aaron were among His priests, And Samuel was among those who called upon His name; They called upon the Lord, and He answered them. 

###### 7 
He spoke to them in the cloudy pillar; They kept His testimonies and the [^c]ordinance He gave them. 

###### 8 
You answered them, O Lord our God; You were to them God-Who-Forgives, Though You took vengeance on their deeds. 

###### 9 
Exalt the Lord our God, And worship at His holy hill; For the Lord our God _is_ holy. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 99:1 _shaken_ [^b]: Psalm 99:3 Or _It_ [^c]: Psalm 99:7 _statute_
