---
Aliases: [Psalms 16]
previous: ['Ps 15']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 17']
---
# Psalms 16

***
















###### 1 







Keep _and_ protect me, O God, for in You I have placed my trust _and_ found refuge. 















###### 2 







I said to the LORD, "You are my Lord; I have no good besides You." 















###### 3 







As for the saints (godly people) who are in the land, They are the majestic _and_ the noble _and_ the excellent ones in whom is all my delight. 















###### 4 







The sorrows [pain and suffering] of those who have chosen another _god_ will be multiplied [because of their idolatry]; I will not pour out their drink offerings of blood, Nor will I take their names upon my lips. 















###### 5 







The LORD is the portion of my inheritance, my cup [He is all I need]; You support my lot. 















###### 6 







The [boundary] lines [of the land] have fallen for me in pleasant places; Indeed, my heritage is beautiful to me. 















###### 7 







I will bless the LORD who has counseled me; Indeed, my heart (mind) instructs me in the night. 















###### 8 







I have set the LORD continually before me; Because He is at my right hand, I will not be shaken. 















###### 9 







Therefore my heart is glad and my glory [my innermost self] rejoices; My body too will dwell [confidently] in safety, 















###### 10 







For You will not abandon me to Sheol (the nether world, the place of the dead), Nor will You allow Your Holy One to undergo decay. 















###### 11 







You will show me the path of life; In Your presence is fullness of joy; In Your right hand there are pleasures forevermore. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 16:1 Meaning uncertain; perhaps a poem.
