---
Aliases: [Psalms 147]
previous: ['Ps 146']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 148']
---
# Psalms 147

***
















###### 1 







Praise the LORD! For it is good to sing praises to our [gracious and majestic] God; Praise is becoming _and_ appropriate. 















###### 2 







The LORD is building up Jerusalem; He is gathering [together] the exiles of Israel. 















###### 3 







He heals the brokenhearted And binds up their wounds [healing their pain and comforting their sorrow]. 















###### 4 







He counts the number of the stars; He calls them all by their names. 















###### 5 







Great is our [majestic and mighty] Lord and abundant in strength; His understanding is inexhaustible [infinite, boundless]. 















###### 6 







The LORD lifts up the humble; He casts the wicked down to the ground. 















###### 7 







Sing to the LORD with thanksgiving; Sing praises to our God with the lyre, 















###### 8 







Who covers the heavens with clouds, Who provides rain for the earth, Who makes grass grow on the mountains. 















###### 9 







He gives to the beast its food, And to the young ravens that for which they cry. 















###### 10 







He does not delight in the strength (military power) of the horse, Nor does He take pleasure in the legs (strength) of a man. 















###### 11 







The LORD favors those who fear _and_ worship Him [with awe-inspired reverence and obedience], Those who wait for His mercy _and_ lovingkindness. 















###### 12 







Praise the LORD, O Jerusalem! Praise your God, O Zion! 















###### 13 







For He has strengthened the bars of your gates, He has blessed your children within you. 















###### 14 







He makes peace in your borders; He satisfies you with the finest of the wheat. 















###### 15 







He sends His command to the earth; His word runs very swiftly. 















###### 16 







He gives [to the earth] snow like [a blanket of] wool; He scatters the frost like ashes. 















###### 17 







He casts out His ice like fragments; Who can stand before His cold? 















###### 18 







He sends out His word and melts the ice; He causes His wind to blow and the waters to flow. 















###### 19 







He declares His word to Jacob, His statutes and His ordinances to Israel. 















###### 20 







He has not dealt this way with any [other] nation; They have not known [understood, appreciated, heeded, or cherished] His ordinances. Praise the LORD! (Hallelujah!) ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
