---
Aliases: [Psalms 14]
previous: ['Ps 13']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 15']
---
# Psalms 14

***
















###### 1 







The [spiritually ignorant] fool has said in his heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt, they have committed repulsive _and_ unspeakable deeds; There is no one who does good. 















###### 2 







The LORD has looked down from heaven upon the children of men To see if there are any who understand (act wisely), Who [truly] seek after God, [longing for His wisdom and guidance]. 















###### 3 







They have all turned aside, together they have become corrupt; There is no one who does good, not even one. 















###### 4 







Have all the workers of wickedness _and_ injustice no knowledge, Who eat up my people as they eat bread, And do not call upon the LORD? 















###### 5 







There they tremble with great fear, For God is with the [consistently] righteous generation. 















###### 6 







You [evildoers] shamefully plan against the poor, But the LORD is his safe refuge. 















###### 7 







Oh, that the salvation of Israel would come out of Zion! When the LORD restores His captive people, Then Jacob will rejoice, Israel will be glad. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
