---
Aliases: [Psalms 104]
previous: ['Ps 103']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 105']
---
# Psalms 104

***
















###### 1 







Bless _and_ affectionately praise the LORD, O my soul! O LORD my God, You are very great; You are clothed with splendor and majesty, 















###### 2 







[You are the One] who covers Yourself with light as with a garment, Who stretches out the heavens like a tent curtain, 















###### 3 







Who lays the beams of His upper chambers in the waters [above the firmament], Who makes the clouds His chariot, Who walks on the wings of the wind, 















###### 4 







Who makes winds His messengers, Flames of fire His ministers. 















###### 5 







He established the earth on its foundations, So that it will not be moved forever and ever. 















###### 6 







You covered it with the deep as with a garment; The waters were standing above the mountains. 















###### 7 







At Your rebuke they fled; At the sound of Your thunder they hurried away. 















###### 8 







The mountains rose, the valleys sank down To the place which You established for them. 















###### 9 







You set a boundary [for the waters] that they may not cross over, So that they will not return to cover the earth. 















###### 10 







You send springs into the valleys; Their waters flow among the mountains. 















###### 11 







They give drink to every beast of the field; The wild donkeys quench their thirst there. 















###### 12 







Beside them the birds of the heavens have their nests; They lift up their voices _and_ sing among the branches. 















###### 13 







He waters the mountains from His upper chambers; The earth is satisfied with the fruit of His works. 















###### 14 







He causes grass to grow for the cattle, And all that the earth produces for cultivation by man, So that he may bring food from the earth-- 















###### 15 







And wine which makes the heart of man glad, So that he may make his face glisten with oil, And bread to sustain _and_ strengthen man's heart. 















###### 16 







The trees of the LORD drink their fill, The cedars of Lebanon which He has planted, 















###### 17 







Where the birds make their nests; As for the stork, the fir trees are her house. 















###### 18 







The high mountains are for the wild goats; The rocks are a refuge for the [^a]shephanim. 















###### 19 







He made the moon for the seasons; The sun knows the [exact] place of its setting. 















###### 20 







You [O LORD] make darkness and it becomes night, In which prowls about every wild beast of the forest. 















###### 21 







The young lions roar after their prey And seek their food from God. 















###### 22 







When the sun arises, they withdraw And lie down in their dens. 















###### 23 







Man goes out to his work And remains at his labor until evening. 















###### 24 







O LORD, how many _and_ varied are Your works! In wisdom You have made them all; The earth is full of Your riches _and_ Your creatures. 















###### 25 







There is the sea, great and broad, In which are swarms without number, Creatures both small and great. 















###### 26 







There the ships [of the sea] sail, And Leviathan [the sea monster], which You have formed to play there. 















###### 27 







They all wait for You To give them their food in its appointed season. 















###### 28 







You give it to them, they gather it up; You open Your hand, they are filled _and_ satisfied with good [things]. 















###### 29 







You hide Your face, they are dismayed; You take away their breath, they die And return to their dust. 















###### 30 







You send out Your Spirit, they are created; You renew the face of the ground. 















###### 31 







May the glory of the LORD endure forever; May the LORD rejoice _and_ be glad in His works-- 















###### 32 







He looks at the earth, and it trembles; He touches the mountains, and they smoke. 















###### 33 







I will sing to the LORD as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have my being. 















###### 34 







May my meditation be sweet _and_ pleasing to Him; As for me, I will rejoice _and_ be glad in the LORD. 















###### 35 







Let sinners be consumed from the earth, And let the wicked be no more. Bless _and_ affectionately praise the LORD, O my soul. Praise the LORD! (Hallelujah!) ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 104:18 Small, shy, furry animals _(Hyrax syriacus)_ found in the peninsula of the Sinai, northern Israel, and the region around the Dead Sea; kjv _coney_, orig NASB _rock badgers_.
