---
Aliases: [Psalms 112]
previous: ['Ps 111']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 113']
---
# Psalms 112

***
















###### 1 







Praise the LORD! (Hallelujah!) Blessed [fortunate, prosperous, and favored by God] is the man who fears the LORD [with awe-inspired reverence and worships Him with obedience], Who delights greatly in His commandments. 















###### 2 







His descendants will be mighty on earth; The generation of the upright will be blessed. 















###### 3 







Wealth and riches are in his house, And his righteousness endures forever. 















###### 4 







Light arises in the darkness for the upright; He is gracious and compassionate and righteous (upright--in right standing with God). 















###### 5 







It is well with the man who is gracious and lends; He conducts his affairs with justice. 















###### 6 







He will never be shaken; The righteous will be remembered forever. 















###### 7 







He will not fear bad news; His heart is steadfast, trusting [confidently relying on and believing] in the LORD. 















###### 8 







His heart is upheld, he will not fear While he looks [with satisfaction] on his adversaries. 















###### 9 







He has given freely to the poor; His righteousness endures forever; His horn will be exalted in honor. 















###### 10 







The wicked will see it and be angered, He will gnash his teeth and melt away [in despair and death]; The desire of the wicked will perish _and_ come to nothing. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
