---
Aliases: [Psalms 108]
previous: ['Ps 107']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 109']
---
# Psalms 108

***
















###### 1 







O God, my heart is steadfast [with confident faith]; I will sing, I will sing praises, even with my soul. 















###### 2 







Awake, harp and lyre; I will awaken the dawn! 















###### 3 







I will praise _and_ give thanks to You, O LORD, among the people; And I will sing praises to You among the nations. 















###### 4 







For Your lovingkindness is great _and_ higher than the heavens; Your truth _reaches_ to the skies. 















###### 5 







Be exalted [in majesty], O God, above the heavens, And Your glory above all the earth. 















###### 6 







That Your beloved [ones] may be rescued, Save with Your right hand, and answer me! 















###### 7 







God has spoken in His [^a]holiness: "I will rejoice, I will portion out Shechem [as I divide Canaan among My people], And measure out the Valley of Succoth. 















###### 8 







"Gilead is Mine, Manasseh is Mine; Ephraim also is the helmet of My head [My stronghold, My defense]; Judah is My [^b]scepter. 















###### 9 







"Moab is My washbowl; Over Edom I will throw My shoe [to show Edom is Mine]; Over Philistia I will shout [in triumph]." 















###### 10 







Who will bring me into the fortified city [of Petra]? Who will lead me to Edom? 















###### 11 







Have You not rejected us, O God? And will You not go out, O God, with our armies? 















###### 12 







Give us help against the adversary, For deliverance by man is in vain [a worthless hope]. 















###### 13 







[^c]With God we will do valiantly, For it is He who will trample down our enemies. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 108:7 Or _sanctuary_. [^b]: Psalm 108:8 Or _lawgiver_. [^c]: Psalm 108:13 Or _In_ or _Through_.
