---
Aliases: [Psalms 138]
previous: ['Ps 137']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 139']
---
# Psalms 138

***
















###### 1 







I will give You thanks with all my heart; I sing praises to You before the [pagan] gods. 















###### 2 







I will bow down [in worship] toward Your holy temple And give thanks to Your name for Your lovingkindness and Your truth; For You have magnified Your word together with Your name. 















###### 3 







On the day I called, You answered me; And You made me bold _and_ confident with [renewed] strength in my life. 















###### 4 







All the kings of the land will give thanks _and_ praise You, O LORD, When they have heard of the promises of Your mouth [which were fulfilled]. 















###### 5 







Yes, they will sing of the ways of the LORD [joyfully celebrating His wonderful acts], For great is the glory _and_ majesty of the LORD. 















###### 6 







Though the LORD is exalted, He regards the lowly [and invites them into His fellowship]; But the proud _and_ haughty He knows from a distance. 















###### 7 







Though I walk in the midst of trouble, You will revive me; You will stretch out Your hand against the wrath of my enemies, And Your right hand will save me. 















###### 8 







The LORD will accomplish that which concerns me; Your [unwavering] lovingkindness, O LORD, endures forever-- Do not abandon the works of Your own hands. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
