---
Aliases: [Psalms 111]
previous: ['Ps 110']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 112']
---
# Psalms 111

***
















###### 1 







Praise the LORD! (Hallelujah!) I will give thanks to the LORD with all my heart, In the company of the upright and in the congregation. 















###### 2 







Great are the works of the LORD, Studied by all those who delight in them. 















###### 3 







Splendid and majestic is His work, And His righteousness endures forever. 















###### 4 







He has made His wonderful acts to be remembered; The LORD is gracious and merciful _and_ full of loving compassion. 















###### 5 







He has given food to those who fear Him [with awe-inspired reverence]; He will remember His covenant forever. 















###### 6 







He has declared _and_ made known to His people the power of His works, In giving them the heritage of the nations. 















###### 7 







The works of His hands are truth and [absolute] justice; All His precepts are sure (established, reliable, trustworthy). 















###### 8 







They are upheld forever and ever; They are done in [absolute] truth and uprightness. 















###### 9 







He has sent redemption to His people; He has ordained His covenant forever; Holy and awesome is His name--[inspiring reverence and godly fear]. 















###### 10 







The [reverent] fear of the LORD is the beginning (the prerequisite, the absolute essential, the alphabet) of wisdom; A good understanding _and_ a teachable heart are possessed by all those who do _the will of the L__ord_; His praise endures forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
