---
Aliases: [Psalms 145]
previous: ['Ps 144']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 146']
---
# Psalms 145

***
















###### 1 







I will exalt You, my God, O King, And [with gratitude and submissive wonder] I will bless Your name forever and ever. 















###### 2 







Every day I will bless You _and_ lovingly praise You; Yes, [with awe-inspired reverence] I will praise Your name forever and ever. 















###### 3 







Great is the LORD, and highly to be praised, And His greatness is [so vast and profound as to be] unsearchable [incomprehensible to man]. 















###### 4 







One generation shall praise Your works to another, And shall declare Your mighty _and_ remarkable acts. 















###### 5 







On the glorious splendor of Your majesty And on Your wonderful works, I will meditate. 















###### 6 







People will speak of the power of Your awesome acts, And [with gratitude and submissive wonder] I will tell of Your greatness. 















###### 7 







They will overflow [like a fountain] when they speak of Your great _and_ abundant goodness And will sing joyfully of Your righteousness. 















###### 8 







The LORD is gracious and full of compassion, Slow to anger and abounding in lovingkindness. 















###### 9 







The LORD is good to all, And His tender mercies are over all His works [the entirety of things created]. 















###### 10 







All Your works shall give thanks to You _and_ praise You, O LORD, And Your godly ones will bless You. 















###### 11 







They shall speak of the glory of Your kingdom And talk of Your power, 















###### 12 







To make known to the sons of men Your mighty acts And the glorious majesty of Your kingdom. 















###### 13 







Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, And Your dominion _endures_ throughout all generations. 















###### 14 







The LORD upholds all those [of His own] who fall And raises up all those who are bowed down. 















###### 15 







The eyes of all look to You [in hopeful expectation], And You give them their food in due time. 















###### 16 







You open Your hand And satisfy the desire of every living thing. 















###### 17 







The LORD is [unwaveringly] righteous in all His ways And gracious _and_ kind in all His works. 















###### 18 







The LORD is near to all who call on Him, To all who call on Him in truth (without guile). 















###### 19 







He will fulfill the desire of those who fear _and_ worship Him [with awe-inspired reverence and obedience]; He also will hear their cry and will save them. 















###### 20 







The LORD keeps all who love Him, But all the wicked He will destroy. 















###### 21 







My mouth will speak the praise of the LORD, And all flesh will bless _and_ gratefully praise His holy name forever and ever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
