---
Aliases: [Psalms 146]
previous: ['Ps 145']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 147']
---
# Psalms 146

***
















###### 1 







Praise the LORD! (Hallelujah!) Praise the LORD, O my soul! 















###### 2 







While I live I will praise the LORD; I will sing praises to my God as long as I live. 















###### 3 







Do not trust in princes, In mortal man, in whom there is no salvation (help). 















###### 4 







When his spirit leaves him, he returns to the earth; In that very day his thoughts _and_ plans perish. 















###### 5 







How blessed _and_ graciously favored is he whose help is the God of Jacob (Israel), Whose hope is in the LORD his God, 















###### 6 







Who made heaven and earth, The sea, and all that is in them, Who keeps truth _and_ is faithful forever, 















###### 7 







Who executes justice for the oppressed, Who gives food to the hungry. The LORD sets free the prisoners. 















###### 8 







The LORD opens _the eyes of_ the blind; The LORD lifts up those who are bowed down; The LORD loves the [^a]righteous [the upright in heart]. 















###### 9 







The LORD protects the strangers; He supports the fatherless and the widow; But He makes crooked the way of the wicked. 















###### 10 







The LORD shall reign forever, Your God, O Zion, to all generations. Praise the LORD! (Hallelujah!) ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 146:8 I.e. those whose moral and spiritual integrity places them in right standing with God.
