---
Aliases: [Psalms 144]
previous: ['Ps 143']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 145']
---
# Psalms 144

***
















###### 1 







Blessed be the LORD, my Rock _and_ my great strength, Who trains my hands for war And my fingers for battle; 















###### 2 







My [steadfast] lovingkindness and my fortress, My high tower and my rescuer, My shield and He in whom I take refuge, Who subdues my people under me. 















###### 3 







LORD, what is man that You take notice of him? Or the son of man that You think of him? 















###### 4 







Man is like a mere breath; His days are like a shadow that passes away. 















###### 5 







Bow Your heavens, O LORD, and come down; Touch the mountains, and they will smoke. 















###### 6 







Flash lightning and scatter my enemies; Send out Your arrows and confuse _and_ embarrass _and_ frustrate them. 















###### 7 







Stretch out Your hand from above; Set me free and rescue me from great waters, Out of the hands of [hostile] foreigners [who surround us] 















###### 8 







Whose mouths speak deceit [without restraint], And whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood. 















###### 9 







I will sing a new song to You, O God; Upon a harp of ten strings I will sing praises to You, 















###### 10 







Who gives salvation to kings, Who sets David His servant free from the evil sword. 















###### 11 







Set me free and rescue me from the hand of [hostile] foreigners, Whose mouth speaks deceit [without restraint], And whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood. 















###### 12 







Let our sons in their youth be like plants full grown, And our daughters like corner pillars fashioned for a palace; 















###### 13 







Let our barns be full, supplying every kind of produce, And our flocks bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our fields; 















###### 14 







Let our cattle bear Without mishap and without loss, And let there be no outcry in our streets! 















###### 15 







How blessed _and_ favored are the people in such circumstance; How blessed [fortunate, prosperous, and favored] are the people whose God is the LORD! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
