---
Aliases: [Psalms 107]
previous: ['Ps 106']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 108']
---
# Psalms 107

***
















###### 1 







O give thanks to the LORD, for He is good; For His compassion _and_ lovingkindness endure forever! 















###### 2 







Let the redeemed of the LORD say so, Whom He has redeemed from the hand of the adversary, 















###### 3 







And gathered them from the lands, From the east and from the west, From the north and from the [^a]south. 















###### 4 







They wandered in the wilderness in a [solitary] desert region; And did not find a way to an inhabited city. 















###### 5 







Hungry and thirsty, They fainted. 















###### 6 







Then they cried out to the LORD in their trouble, And He rescued them from their distresses. 















###### 7 







He led them by the straight way, To an inhabited city [where they could establish their homes]. 















###### 8 







Let them give thanks to the LORD for His lovingkindness, And for His wonderful acts to the children of men! 















###### 9 







For He satisfies the parched throat, And fills the hungry appetite with what is good. 















###### 10 







Some dwelt in darkness and in the deep (deathly) darkness, Prisoners [bound] in misery and chains, 















###### 11 







Because they had rebelled against the precepts of God And spurned the counsel of the Most High. 















###### 12 







Therefore He humbled their heart with hard labor; They stumbled and there was no one to help. 















###### 13 







Then they cried out to the LORD in their trouble, And He saved them from their distresses. 















###### 14 







He brought them out of darkness and the deep (deathly) darkness And broke their bonds apart. 















###### 15 







Let them give thanks to the LORD for His lovingkindness, And for His wonderful acts to the children of men! 















###### 16 







For He has shattered the gates of bronze And cut the bars of iron apart. 















###### 17 







Fools, because of their rebellious way, And because of their sins, were afflicted. 















###### 18 







They detested all kinds of food, And they drew near to the gates of death. 















###### 19 







Then they cried out to the LORD in their trouble, And He saved them from their distresses. 















###### 20 







He sent His word and healed them, And rescued them from their destruction. 















###### 21 







Let them give thanks to the LORD for His lovingkindness, And for His wonderful acts to the children of men! 















###### 22 







And let them offer the sacrifices of thanksgiving, And speak of His deeds with shouts of joy! 















###### 23 







Those who go down to the sea in ships, Who do business on great waters; 















###### 24 







They have seen the works of the LORD, And His wonders in the deep. 















###### 25 







For He spoke and raised up a stormy wind, Which lifted up the waves of the sea. 















###### 26 







They went up toward the heavens [on the crest of the wave], they went down again to the depths [of the watery trough]; Their courage melted away in their misery. 















###### 27 







They staggered and trembled like a drunken man, And were at their wits' end [all their wisdom was useless]. 















###### 28 







Then they cried out to the LORD in their trouble, And He brought them out of their distresses. 















###### 29 







He hushed the storm to a gentle whisper, So that the waves of the sea were still. 















###### 30 







Then they were glad because of the calm, And He guided them to their desired haven (harbor). 















###### 31 







Let them give thanks to the LORD for His lovingkindness, And for His wonderful acts to the children of men! 















###### 32 







Let them exalt Him also in the congregation of the people, And praise Him at the seat of the elders. 















###### 33 







He turns rivers into a wilderness, And springs of water into a thirsty ground; 















###### 34 







A productive land into a [barren] salt waste, Because of the wickedness of those who dwell in it. 















###### 35 







He turns a wilderness into a pool of water And a dry land into springs of water; 















###### 36 







And there He has the hungry dwell, So that they may establish an inhabited city, 















###### 37 







And sow fields and plant vineyards, And produce an abundant harvest. 















###### 38 







Also He blesses them so that they multiply greatly, And He does not let [the number of] their cattle decrease. 















###### 39 







When they are diminished and bowed down (humbled) Through oppression, misery, and sorrow, 















###### 40 







He pours contempt on princes And makes them wander in a pathless wasteland. 















###### 41 







Yet He sets the needy securely on high, away from affliction, And makes their families like a flock. 















###### 42 







The upright see it and rejoice; But all unrighteousness shuts its mouth. 















###### 43 







Who is wise? Let him observe _and_ heed these things; And [thoughtfully] consider the lovingkindness of the LORD. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 107:3 Lit _sea_.
