---
Aliases: [Psalms 130]
previous: ['Ps 129']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 131']
---
# Psalms 130

***
















###### 1 







Out of the [^b]depths [of distress] I have cried to You, O LORD. 















###### 2 







Lord, hear my voice! Let Your ears be attentive To the voice of my supplications. 















###### 3 







If You, LORD, should keep an account of our sins _and_ treat us accordingly, O Lord, who could stand [before you in judgment and claim innocence]? 















###### 4 







But there is forgiveness with You, That You may be feared _and_ worshiped [with submissive wonder]. 















###### 5 







I wait [patiently] for the LORD, my soul [expectantly] waits, And in His word do I hope. 















###### 6 







My soul waits for the Lord More than the watchmen for the morning; More than the watchmen for the morning. 















###### 7 







O Israel, hope in the LORD; For with the LORD there is lovingkindness, And with Him is abundant redemption. 















###### 8 







And He will redeem Israel From all his sins. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 130:1 See Psalm 120 title note. [^b]: Psalm 130:1 The Psalmist probably used “depths” figuratively, but the ancient rabbis understood this as an admonition to pray from a low place (in elevation) as a matter of humility.
