---
Aliases: [Psalms 10]
previous: ['Ps 9']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 11']
---
# Psalms 10

***
















###### 1 







Why do You stand far away, O LORD? Why do You hide [Yourself, veiling Your eyes] in times of trouble? 















###### 2 







In pride _and_ arrogance the wicked hotly pursue _and_ persecute the afflicted; Let them be caught in the plots which they have devised. 















###### 3 







For the wicked boasts _and_ sings the praises of his heart's desire, And the greedy man curses and spurns [and even despises] the LORD. 















###### 4 







The wicked, in the haughtiness of his face, will not seek _nor_ inquire for _Him_; All his thoughts are, "There is no God [so there is no accountability or punishment]." 















###### 5 







His ways prosper at all times; Your judgments [LORD] are on high, out of his sight [so he never thinks about them]; As for all his enemies, he sneers at them. 















###### 6 







He says to himself, "I will not be moved; For throughout all generations I will not be in adversity [for nothing bad will happen to me]." 















###### 7 







His mouth is full of curses and deceit (fraud) and oppression; Under his tongue is mischief and wickedness [injustice and sin]. 















###### 8 







He lurks in ambush in the villages; In hiding places he kills the innocent; He lies in wait for the unfortunate [the unhappy, the poor, the helpless]. 















###### 9 







He lurks in a hiding place like a lion in his lair; He lies in wait to catch the afflicted; He catches the afflicted when he draws him into his net. 















###### 10 







He crushes [his prey] and crouches; And the unfortunate fall by his mighty _claws_. 















###### 11 







He says to himself, "God has [quite] forgotten; He has hidden His face; He will never see my deed." 















###### 12 







Arise, O LORD! O God, lift up Your hand [in judgment]; Do not forget the suffering. 















###### 13 







Why has the wicked spurned _and_ shown disrespect to God? He has said to himself, "You will not require me to account." 















###### 14 







You have seen it, for You have noted mischief and vexation (irritation) to take it into Your hand. The unfortunate commits _himself_ to You; You are the helper of the fatherless. 















###### 15 







Break the arm of the wicked and the evildoer, Seek out his wickedness until You find no more. 















###### 16 







The LORD is King forever and ever; The nations will perish from His land. 















###### 17 







O LORD, You have heard the desire of the humble _and_ oppressed; You will strengthen their heart, You will incline Your ear to hear, 















###### 18 







To vindicate _and_ obtain justice for the fatherless and the oppressed, So that man who is of the earth will no longer terrify them. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
