---
Aliases: [Psalms 12]
previous: ['Ps 11']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 13']
---
# Psalms 12

***
















###### 1 







Save _and_ help _and_ rescue, LORD, for godly people cease to be, For the faithful vanish from among the sons of men. 















###### 2 







They speak deceitful _and_ worthless words to one another; With flattering lips and a double heart they speak. 















###### 3 







May the LORD cut off all flattering lips, The tongue that speaks great things [in boasting]; 















###### 4 







Who have said, "With our tongue we will prevail; Our lips are our own; who is lord _and_ master over us?" 















###### 5 







"Because of the devastation of the afflicted, because of the groaning of the needy, Now I will arise," says the LORD; "I will place him in the safety for which he longs." 















###### 6 







The words _and_ promises of the LORD are pure words, Like silver refined in an earthen furnace, purified seven times. 















###### 7 







You, O LORD, will preserve _and_ keep them; You will protect him from this [evil] generation forever. 















###### 8 







The wicked strut about [in pompous self-importance] on every side, As vileness is exalted _and_ baseness is prized among the sons of men. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 12:1 Or possibly _on the eight-stringed lyre_; meaning uncertain.
