---
Aliases: [Psalms 17]
previous: ['Ps 16']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 18']
---
# Psalms 17

***
















###### 1 







Hear the just (righteous) cause, O LORD; listen to my loud [piercing] cry; Listen to my prayer, that comes from guileless lips. 















###### 2 







Let my verdict of vindication come from Your presence; May Your eyes look with equity _and_ behold things that are just. 















###### 3 







You have tried my heart; You have visited me in the night; You have tested me and You find nothing [evil in me]; I intend that my mouth will not transgress. 















###### 4 







Concerning the deeds of men, by the word of Your lips I have kept away from the paths of the violent. 















###### 5 







My steps have held closely to Your paths; My feet have not staggered. 















###### 6 







I have called upon You, for You, O God, will answer me; Incline Your ear to me, hear my speech. 















###### 7 







Wondrously show Your [marvelous and amazing] lovingkindness, O Savior of those who take refuge at Your right hand From those who rise up _against them_. 















###### 8 







Keep me [in Your affectionate care, protect me] as the [^a]apple of Your eye; Hide me in the [protective] shadow of Your wings 















###### 9 







From the wicked who despoil _and_ deal violently with me, My deadly enemies who surround me. 















###### 10 







They have closed their [^b]unfeeling _heart_ [to kindness and compassion]; With their mouths they speak proudly _and_ make presumptuous claims. 















###### 11 







They track us down _and_ have now surrounded us in our steps; They set their eyes to force us to the ground, 















###### 12 







He is like a lion eager to tear [his prey], And like a young lion lurking in hiding places. 















###### 13 







Arise, O LORD, confront him, cast him down; Save my soul from the wicked with Your sword, 















###### 14 







From men with Your hand, O LORD, From men of the world [these moths of the night] whose portion [of enjoyment] is in this life--idle and vain, And whose belly You fill with Your treasure; They are satisfied with children, And they leave what they have left [of wealth] to their children. 















###### 15 







As for me, I shall see Your face in righteousness; I will be [fully] satisfied when I awake [to find myself] seeing Your likeness. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 17:8 Lit _the pupil, the daughter of the eye_. [^b]: Psalm 17:10 Lit _fat_.
