---
Aliases: [Psalms 116]
previous: ['Ps 115']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 117']
---
# Psalms 116

***
















###### 1 







I love the LORD, because He hears [and continues to hear] My voice and my supplications (my pleas, my cries, my specific needs). 















###### 2 







Because He has inclined His ear to me, Therefore I will call on Him as long as I live. 















###### 3 







The cords _and_ sorrows of death encompassed me, And the terrors of Sheol came upon me; I found distress and sorrow. 















###### 4 







Then I called on the name of the LORD: "O LORD, please save my life!" 















###### 5 







Gracious is the LORD, and [consistently] righteous; Yes, our God is compassionate. 















###### 6 







[^a]The LORD protects the simple (childlike); I was brought low [humbled and discouraged], and He saved me. 















###### 7 







Return to your rest, O my soul, For the LORD has dealt bountifully with you. 















###### 8 







For You have rescued my life from death, My eyes from tears, And my feet from stumbling _and_ falling. 















###### 9 







I will walk [in submissive wonder] before the LORD In the land of the living. 















###### 10 







I believed [and clung to my God] when I said, "I am greatly afflicted." 















###### 11 







I said in my alarm, "All men are liars." 















###### 12 







What will I give to the LORD [in return] For all His benefits toward me? [How can I repay Him for His precious blessings?] 















###### 13 







I will lift up the cup of salvation And call on the name of the LORD. 















###### 14 







I will pay my vows to the LORD, Yes, in the presence of all His people. 















###### 15 







[^b]Precious [and of great consequence] in the sight of the LORD Is the death of His godly ones [so He watches over them]. 















###### 16 







O LORD, truly I am Your servant; I am Your servant, the son of Your handmaid; You have unfastened my chains. 















###### 17 







I will offer to You the sacrifice of thanksgiving, And will call on the name of the LORD. 















###### 18 







I will pay my vows to the LORD, Yes, in the presence of all His people, 















###### 19 







In the courts of the Lord's house (temple)-- In the midst of you, O Jerusalem. Praise the LORD! (Hallelujah!) ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 116:6 In Jewish tradition this became a common saying to explain how some people could do ill-advised things and not suffer for them. [^b]: Psalm 116:15 The ancient rabbis interpreted this verse to mean that it is hard for God to declare death upon the righteous.
