---
Aliases: [Psalms 11]
previous: ['Ps 10']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 12']
---
# Psalms 11

***
















###### 1 







In the LORD I take refuge [and put my trust]; How can you say to me, "Flee like a bird to your mountain; 















###### 2 







For look, the wicked are bending the bow; They take aim with their arrow on the string To shoot [by stealth] in darkness at the upright in heart. 















###### 3 







"If the foundations [of a godly society] are destroyed, What can the righteous do?" 















###### 4 







The LORD is in His holy temple; the Lord's throne is in heaven. His eyes see, His eyelids test the children of men. 















###### 5 







The LORD tests the righteous and the wicked, And His soul hates the [malevolent] one who loves violence. 















###### 6 







Upon the wicked (godless) He will rain coals of fire; Fire and [^a]brimstone and a dreadful scorching wind will be the portion of their cup [of doom]. 















###### 7 







For the LORD is [absolutely] righteous, He loves righteousness (virtue, morality, justice); The upright shall see His face. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 11:6 I.e. burning sulfur.
