---
Aliases: [Psalms 149]
previous: ['Ps 148']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 150']
---
# Psalms 149

***
















###### 1 







Praise the LORD! Sing to the LORD a new song, And praise Him in the congregation of His godly ones (believers). 















###### 2 







Let Israel rejoice in their Maker; Let Zion's children rejoice in their King. 















###### 3 







Let them praise His name with dancing; Let them sing praises to Him with the tambourine and lyre. 















###### 4 







For the LORD takes pleasure in His people; He will beautify the humble with salvation. 















###### 5 







Let the godly ones exult in glory; Let them sing for joy on their beds. 















###### 6 







Let the high praises of God be in their throats, And a two-edged sword in their hands, 















###### 7 







To execute vengeance on the nations And punishment on the peoples, 















###### 8 







To bind their kings with chains And their nobles with fetters of iron, 















###### 9 







To execute on them the judgment written. This is the honor for all His godly ones. Praise the LORD! (Hallelujah!) ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
