---
Aliases: [Psalms 140]
previous: ['Ps 139']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 141']
---
# Psalms 140

***
















###### 1 







Rescue me, O LORD, from evil men; Protect me from violent men. 















###### 2 







They devise evil things in their hearts; They continually [gather together and] stir up wars. 















###### 3 







They sharpen their tongues like a serpent's; Poison of a viper is under their lips. Selah. 















###### 4 







Keep me, O LORD, from the hands of the wicked; Protect me from violent men Who intend to trip up my steps. 















###### 5 







The proud have hidden a trap for me, and cords; They have spread a net by the wayside; They have set traps for me. Selah. 















###### 6 







I said to the LORD, "You are my God; Listen to the voice of my supplications, O LORD. 















###### 7 







"O God the Lord, the strength of my salvation, You have covered my head in the day of battle. 















###### 8 







"Do not grant, O LORD, the desires of the wicked; Do not further their evil device, that they not be exalted. Selah. 















###### 9 







"Those who surround me raise their heads; May the mischief of their own lips come upon them. 















###### 10 







"Let burning coals fall upon them; Let them be thrown into the fire, Into deep [water] pits from which they cannot rise. 















###### 11 







"Do not let a slanderer be established in the earth; Let evil quickly hunt the violent man [to overthrow him and stop his evil acts]." 















###### 12 







I know [with confidence] that the LORD will maintain the cause of the afflicted, And [will secure] justice for the poor. 















###### 13 







Surely the righteous will give thanks to Your name; The upright will dwell in Your presence. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
