---
Aliases: [Psalms 103]
previous: ['Ps 102']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 104']
---
# Psalms 103

***
















###### 1 







Bless _and_ affectionately praise the LORD, O my soul, And all that is [deep] within me, _bless_ His holy name. 















###### 2 







Bless _and_ affectionately praise the LORD, O my soul, And do not forget any of His benefits; 















###### 3 







Who forgives all your sins, Who heals all your diseases; 















###### 4 







Who redeems your life from the pit, Who crowns you [lavishly] with lovingkindness and tender mercy; 















###### 5 







Who satisfies your years with good things, So that your youth is renewed like the [soaring] eagle. 















###### 6 







The LORD executes righteousness And justice for all the oppressed. 















###### 7 







He made known His ways [of righteousness and justice] to Moses, His acts to the children of Israel. 















###### 8 







The LORD is merciful and gracious, Slow to anger and abounding in compassion _and_ lovingkindness. 















###### 9 







He will not always strive _with us_, Nor will He keep _His anger_ forever. 















###### 10 







He has not dealt with us according to our sins [as we deserve], Nor rewarded us [with punishment] according to our wickedness. 















###### 11 







For as the heavens are high above the earth, So great is His lovingkindness toward those who fear _and_ worship Him [with awe-filled respect and deepest reverence]. 















###### 12 







As far as the east is from the west, So far has He removed our transgressions from us. 















###### 13 







Just as a father loves his children, So the LORD loves those who fear _and_ worship Him [with awe-filled respect and deepest reverence]. 















###### 14 







For He knows our [mortal] frame; He remembers that we are [merely] dust. 















###### 15 







As for man, his days are like grass; Like a flower of the field, so he flourishes. 















###### 16 







For the wind passes over it and it is no more, And its place knows it no longer. 















###### 17 







But the lovingkindness of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting on those who [reverently] fear Him, And His righteousness to children's children, 















###### 18 







To those who honor _and_ keep His covenant, And remember to do His commandments [imprinting His word on their hearts]. 















###### 19 







The LORD has established His throne in the heavens, And His sovereignty rules over all [the universe]. 















###### 20 







Bless the LORD, you His angels, You mighty ones who do His commandments, Obeying the voice of His word! 















###### 21 







Bless the LORD, all you His hosts, You who serve Him and do His will. 















###### 22 







Bless the LORD, all you works of His, in all places of His dominion; Bless _and_ affectionately praise the LORD, O my soul! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
