---
Aliases: [Psalms 128]
previous: ['Ps 127']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 129']
---
# Psalms 128

***
















###### 1 







Blessed [happy and sheltered by God's favor] is everyone who fears the LORD [and worships Him with obedience], Who walks in His ways _and_ lives according to His commandments. 















###### 2 







For you shall eat the fruit of [the labor of] your hands, You will be happy _and_ blessed and it will be well with you. 















###### 3 







Your wife shall be like a fruitful vine Within the innermost part of your house; Your children will be like olive plants Around your table. 















###### 4 







Behold, for so shall the man be blessed _and_ divinely favored Who fears the LORD [and worships Him with obedience]. 















###### 5 







May the LORD bless you from Zion [His holy mountain], And may you see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of your life; 















###### 6 







Indeed, may you see your [family perpetuated in your] children's children. Peace be upon Israel! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 128:1 See Psalm 120 title note.
