---
Aliases: [Psalms 102]
previous: ['Ps 101']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 103']
---
# Psalms 102

***
















###### 1 







Hear my prayer, O LORD, And let my cry for help come to You! 















###### 2 







Do not hide Your face from me in the day of my distress! Incline Your ear to me; In the day when I call, answer me quickly. 















###### 3 







For my days have vanished in smoke, And my bones have been scorched like a hearth. 















###### 4 







My heart has been struck like grass and withered, Indeed, [absorbed by my heartache] I forget to eat my food. 















###### 5 







Because of the sound of my groaning [in suffering and trouble] My bones cling to my flesh. 















###### 6 







I am like a [mournful] [^a]vulture of the wilderness; I am like a [desolate] owl of the wasteland. 















###### 7 







I am sleepless _and_ lie awake [mourning], I have become like a lonely bird on a housetop. 















###### 8 







My enemies taunt me all day long; Those who ridicule me use my _name_ as a curse. 















###### 9 







For I have eaten ashes like bread, And have mingled my drink with tears 















###### 10 







Because of Your indignation and Your wrath, For You have lifted me up and thrown me away. 















###### 11 







My days are like an evening shadow that lengthens _and_ vanishes [with the sun]; And as for me, I wither away like grass. 















###### 12 







But You, O LORD, are enthroned forever [ruling eternally as sovereign]; And [the fame and glory of] Your name [endures] to all generations. 















###### 13 







You will arise and have compassion on Zion, For it is time to be gracious _and_ show favor to her; Yes, the appointed time [the moment designated] has come. 















###### 14 







For Your servants find [melancholy] pleasure in the stones [of her ruins] And feel pity for her dust. 















###### 15 







So the nations will fear the name of the LORD, And all the kings of the earth [will recognize] Your glory. 















###### 16 







For the LORD has built up Zion; He has appeared in His glory _and_ brilliance; 















###### 17 







He has regarded the prayer of the destitute, And has not despised their prayer. 















###### 18 







Let this be recorded for the generation to come, That a people yet to be created will praise the LORD. 















###### 19 







For He looked down from His holy height [of His sanctuary], From heaven the LORD gazed on the earth, 















###### 20 







To hear the sighing of the prisoner, To set free those who were doomed to death, 















###### 21 







So that people may declare the name of the LORD in Zion And His praise in Jerusalem, 















###### 22 







When the peoples are gathered together, And the kingdoms, to serve the LORD. 















###### 23 







He has exhausted my strength [humbling me with sorrow] in the way; He has shortened my days. 















###### 24 







I said, "O my God, do not take me away in the midst of my days; Your years are [eternal] throughout all generations. 















###### 25 







"At the beginning You founded the earth; The heavens are the work of Your hands. 















###### 26 







"Even they will perish, but You endure; Yes, all of them will wear out like a garment. Like clothing You will change them and they shall be changed. 















###### 27 







"But You remain the same, And Your years will never end. 















###### 28 







"The children of Your servants will continue, And their descendants will be established before You." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 102:6 Lit _pelican_, or some kind of desert bird.
