---
Aliases: [Psalms 142]
previous: ['Ps 141']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 143']
---
# Psalms 142

***
















###### 1 







I cry aloud with my voice to the LORD; I make supplication with my voice to the LORD. 















###### 2 







I pour out my complaint before Him; I declare my trouble before Him. 















###### 3 







When my spirit was overwhelmed _and_ weak within me [wrapped in darkness], You knew my path. In the way where I walk They have hidden a trap for me. 















###### 4 







Look to the right [the point of attack] and see; For there is no one who has regard for me [to act in my favor]. Escape has failed me _and_ I have nowhere to run; No one cares about my life. 















###### 5 







I cried out to You, O LORD; I said, "You are my refuge, My portion in the land of the living. 















###### 6 







"Give attention to my cry, For I am brought very low; Rescue me from my persecutors, For they are stronger than I. 















###### 7 







"Bring my soul out of prison (adversity), So that I may give thanks _and_ praise Your name; The righteous will surround me [in triumph], For You will look after me." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
