---
Aliases: [Psalms 101]
previous: ['Ps 100']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 102']
---
# Psalms 101

***
















###### 1 







I will sing of [steadfast] lovingkindness and justice; To You, O LORD, I will sing praises. 















###### 2 







I will behave wisely _and_ follow the way of integrity. When will You come to me? I will walk in my house in integrity _and_ with a blameless heart. 















###### 3 







I will set no worthless _or_ wicked thing before my eyes. I hate the practice of those who fall away [from the right path]; It will not grasp hold of me. 















###### 4 







A perverse heart shall depart from me; I will not tolerate evil. 















###### 5 







Whoever secretly slanders his neighbor, him I will silence; The one who has a haughty look and a proud (arrogant) heart I will not tolerate. 















###### 6 







My eyes will be on the faithful (honorable) of the land, that they may dwell with me; He who walks blamelessly is the one who will minister to _and_ serve me. 















###### 7 







He who practices deceit will not dwell in my house; He who tells lies _and_ half-truths will not continue [to remain] in my presence. 















###### 8 







Morning after morning I will destroy all the wicked in the land, That I may cut off from the city of the LORD all those who do evil. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
