---
Aliases: [Psalms 139]
previous: ['Ps 138']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 140']
---
# Psalms 139

***
















###### 1 







O LORD, you have searched me [thoroughly] and have known me. 















###### 2 







You know when I sit down and when I rise up [my entire life, everything I do]; You understand my thought from afar. 















###### 3 







You scrutinize my path and my lying down, And You are intimately acquainted with all my ways. 















###### 4 







Even before there is a word on my tongue [still unspoken], Behold, O LORD, You know it all. 















###### 5 







You have enclosed me behind and before, And [You have] placed Your hand upon me. 















###### 6 







Such [infinite] knowledge is too wonderful for me; It is too high [above me], I cannot reach it. 















###### 7 







Where can I go from Your Spirit? Or where can I flee from Your presence? 















###### 8 







If I ascend to heaven, You are there; If I make my bed in Sheol (the nether world, the place of the dead), behold, You are there. 















###### 9 







If I take the wings of the dawn, If I dwell in the remotest part of the sea, 















###### 10 







Even there Your hand will lead me, And Your right hand will take hold of me. 















###### 11 







If I say, "Surely the darkness will cover me, And the night will be the only light around me," 















###### 12 







Even the darkness is not dark to You _and_ conceals nothing from You, But the night shines as bright as the day; Darkness and light are alike _to You_. 















###### 13 







For You formed my innermost parts; You knit me [together] in my mother's womb. 















###### 14 







I will give thanks _and_ praise to You, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made; Wonderful are Your works, And my soul knows it very well. 















###### 15 







My frame was not hidden from You, When I was being formed in secret, And intricately _and_ skillfully formed [as if embroidered with many colors] in the depths of the earth. 















###### 16 







Your eyes have seen my unformed substance; And in Your book were all written The days that were appointed _for me_, When as yet there was not one of them [even taking shape]. 















###### 17 







How precious also are Your thoughts to me, O God! How vast is the sum of them! 















###### 18 







If I could count them, they would outnumber the sand. When I awake, I am still with You. 















###### 19 







[^a]O that You would kill the wicked, O God; Go away from me, therefore, men of bloodshed. 















###### 20 







For they speak against You wickedly, Your enemies take _Your name_ in vain. 















###### 21 







Do I not hate those who hate You, O LORD? And do I not loathe those who rise up against You? 















###### 22 







I hate them with perfect _and_ utmost hatred; They have become my enemies. 















###### 23 







Search me [thoroughly], O God, and know my heart; Test me and know my anxious thoughts; 















###### 24 







And see if there is any wicked _or_ hurtful way in me, And lead me in the everlasting way. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 139:19 In the first eighteen verses of this psalm, the psalmist acknowledges that God knows everything that the psalmist ever does, no matter when or where he does it. Although God’s vast knowledge of an individual’s deeds can be reassuring for the righteous, it should be frightening for the wicked. In verses 19-24, the psalmist distances himself from the wicked and asks God to help him live in such a way that pleases God.
