---
Aliases: [Psalms 118]
previous: ['Ps 117']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 119']
---
# Psalms 118

***
















###### 1 







O give thanks to the LORD, for He is good; For His lovingkindness endures forever. 















###### 2 







Oh let Israel say, "His lovingkindness endures forever." 















###### 3 







Oh let the house of Aaron say, "His lovingkindness endures forever." 















###### 4 







Oh let those who [reverently] fear the LORD, say, "His lovingkindness endures forever." 















###### 5 







Out of my distress I called on the LORD; The LORD answered me and set me free. 















###### 6 







The LORD is on my side; I will not fear. What can [mere] man do to me? 















###### 7 







The LORD is on my side, He is among those who help me; Therefore I will look [in triumph] on those who hate me. 















###### 8 







It is better to take refuge in the LORD Than to trust in man. 















###### 9 







It is better to take refuge in the LORD Than to trust in princes. 















###### 10 







All nations encompassed me; In the name of the LORD I will surely cut them off. 















###### 11 







They encompassed me, yes, they surrounded me [on every side]; In the name of the LORD I will cut them off. 















###### 12 







They swarmed around me like bees; They flare up _and_ are extinguished like a fire of thorns; In the name of the LORD I will surely cut them off. 















###### 13 







You [my enemy] pushed me violently so that I was falling, But the LORD helped me. 















###### 14 







The LORD is my strength and song, And He has become my salvation. 















###### 15 







The sound of joyful shouting and salvation is in the tents of the righteous: The right hand of the LORD does valiantly. 















###### 16 







The right hand of the LORD is exalted; The right hand of the LORD does valiantly. 















###### 17 







I will not die, but live, And declare the works _and_ recount the illustrious acts of the LORD. 















###### 18 







The LORD has disciplined me severely, But He has not given me over to death. 















###### 19 







Open to me the [temple] gates of righteousness; I shall enter through them, I shall give thanks to the LORD. 















###### 20 







This is the gate of the LORD; The righteous will enter through it. 















###### 21 







I will give thanks to You, for You have heard _and_ answered me; And You have become my salvation [my Rescuer, my Savior]. 















###### 22 







The stone which the builders rejected Has become the [^a]chief corner _stone_. 















###### 23 







This is from the LORD _and_ is His doing; It is marvelous in our eyes. 















###### 24 







This [day in which God has saved me] is the day which the LORD has made; Let us rejoice and be glad in it. 















###### 25 







O LORD, save now, we beseech You; O LORD, we beseech You, send now prosperity _and_ give us success! 















###### 26 







Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the LORD; We have blessed you from the house of the LORD [you who come into His sanctuary under His guardianship]. 















###### 27 







The LORD is God, and He has given us light [illuminating us with His grace and freedom and joy]. Bind the festival sacrifices with [^b]cords to the horns of the altar. 















###### 28 







You are my God, and I give thanks to You; [You are] my God, I extol You. 















###### 29 







O give thanks to the LORD, for He is good; For His lovingkindness endures forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 118:22 This refers either to the prominent stone at the top of a corner tower, or perhaps more likely to the stone at the foundation of a corner, the first stone laid for a structure (cf Eph 2:20). The special significance of the latter is that the shape of its sides determined how the walls were laid out. The verse refers prophetically to Jesus the Messiah (see Matt 21:42 etc.), but the ancient rabbis interpreted it as a reference to David, who started as a humble shepherd, not the background one would expect for a king. Some prophetic passages refer to an event in the past that is a precursor or foreshadowing of the future prophetic event. [^b]: Psalm 118:27 Lit _branches_. In Jewish tradition this is interpreted as a ritual for the Feast of Booths. The term “festival” is understood as a reference to the _lulav_, several branches bound together and later placed against the altar so that they reach to the top of the _horns_ and bend over the altar.
