---
Aliases: [Psalms 148]
previous: ['Ps 147']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 149']
---
# Psalms 148

***
















###### 1 







Praise the LORD! Praise the LORD from the heavens; Praise Him in the heights! 















###### 2 







Praise Him, all His angels; Praise Him, all His hosts (armies)! 















###### 3 







Praise Him, sun and moon: Praise Him, all stars of light! 















###### 4 







Praise Him, highest heavens, And the waters above the heavens! 















###### 5 







Let them praise the name of the LORD, For He commanded and they were created. 















###### 6 







He has also established them forever and ever; He has made a decree which shall not pass away. 















###### 7 







Praise the LORD from the earth, Sea monsters and all deeps; 















###### 8 







Lightning and hail, snow and fog; Stormy wind, fulfilling His orders; 















###### 9 







Mountains and all hills; Fruitful trees and all cedars; 















###### 10 







Beasts and all cattle; Creeping things and winged birds; 















###### 11 







Kings of the earth and all people; Princes and all judges of the earth; 















###### 12 







Both young men and virgins; Old men and children. 















###### 13 







Let them praise the name of the LORD, For His name alone is exalted _and_ supreme; His glory _and_ majesty are above earth and heaven. 















###### 14 







He has lifted up a horn for His people [giving them strength, prosperity, dignity, and preeminence], Praise for all His godly ones; For the people of Israel, a people near to Him. Praise the LORD! (Hallelujah!) ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
