---
Aliases: [Psalms 18]
previous: ['Ps 17']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 19']
---
# Psalms 18

***
















###### 1 







"I love You [fervently and devotedly], O LORD, my strength." 















###### 2 







The LORD is my rock, my fortress, and the One who rescues me; My God, my rock _and_ strength in whom I trust _and_ take refuge; My shield, and the horn of my salvation, my high tower--my stronghold. 















###### 3 







I call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised; And I am saved from my enemies. 















###### 4 







The cords of death surrounded me, And the streams of ungodliness _and_ torrents of destruction terrified me. 















###### 5 







The cords of Sheol (the nether world, the place of the dead) surrounded me; The snares of death confronted me. 















###### 6 







In my distress [when I seemed surrounded] I called upon the LORD And cried to my God for help; He heard my voice from His temple, And my cry for help came before Him, into His _very_ ears. 















###### 7 







Then the earth shook and quaked, The foundations of the mountains trembled; They were shaken because He was indignant _and_ angry. 















###### 8 







Smoke went up from His nostrils, And fire from His mouth devoured; Coals were kindled by it. 















###### 9 







He bowed the heavens also and came down; And thick darkness was under His feet. 















###### 10 







And He rode upon a cherub (storm) and flew; And He sped on the wings of the wind. 















###### 11 







He made darkness His hiding place (covering); His pavilion (canopy) around Him, The darkness of the waters, the thick clouds of the skies. 















###### 12 







Out of the brightness before Him passed His thick clouds, Hailstones and coals of fire. 















###### 13 







The LORD also thundered in the heavens, And the Most High uttered His voice, Hailstones and coals of fire. 















###### 14 







He sent out His arrows and scattered them; And _He sent_ an abundance of lightning flashes and confused _and_ routed them [in defeat]. 















###### 15 







Then the stream beds of the waters appeared, And the foundations of the world were laid bare At Your rebuke, O LORD, At the blast of the breath of Your nostrils. 















###### 16 







He reached from on high, He took me; He drew me out of many waters. 















###### 17 







He rescued me from my strong enemy, And from those who hated me, for they were too strong for me. 















###### 18 







They confronted me in the day of my disaster, But the LORD was my support. 















###### 19 







He brought me out into a broad place; He rescued me because He was pleased with me _and_ delighted in me. 















###### 20 







The LORD dealt with me according to my righteousness (moral character, spiritual integrity); According to the cleanness of my hands He has rewarded me. 















###### 21 







For I have kept the ways of the LORD, And have not wickedly departed from my God. 















###### 22 







For all His ordinances were before me, And I did not put away His statutes from me. 















###### 23 







I was [^a]blameless before Him, And I kept myself free from my sin. 















###### 24 







Therefore the LORD has rewarded me according to my righteousness (moral character, spiritual integrity), According to the cleanness of my hands in His sight. 















###### 25 







With the kind (merciful, faithful, loyal) You show Yourself kind, With the blameless You show Yourself blameless, 















###### 26 







With the pure You show Yourself pure, And with the crooked You show Yourself astute. 















###### 27 







For You save an afflicted _and_ humble people, But bring down those [arrogant fools] with haughty eyes. 















###### 28 







For You cause my lamp to be lighted _and_ to shine; The LORD my God illumines my darkness. 















###### 29 







For by You I can crush a troop, And by my God I can leap over a wall. 















###### 30 







As for God, His way is [^b]blameless. The word of the LORD is tested [it is perfect, it is faultless]; He is a shield to all who take refuge in Him. 















###### 31 







For who is God, but the LORD? Or who is a rock, except our God, 















###### 32 







The God who encircles me with strength And makes my way blameless? 















###### 33 







He makes my feet like [^c]hinds' feet [able to stand firmly and tread safely on paths of testing and trouble]; He sets me [securely] upon my high places. 















###### 34 







He trains my hands for war, So that my arms can bend a bow of bronze. 















###### 35 







You have also given me the shield of Your salvation, And Your right hand upholds _and_ sustains me; Your gentleness [Your gracious response when I pray] makes me great. 















###### 36 







You enlarge the path beneath me _and_ make my steps secure, So that my feet will not slip. 















###### 37 







I pursued my enemies and overtook them; And I did not turn back until they were consumed. 















###### 38 







I shattered them so that they were not able to rise; They fell [wounded] under my feet. 















###### 39 







For You have encircled me with strength for the battle; You have subdued under me those who rose up against me. 















###### 40 







You have also made my enemies turn their backs to me [in defeat], And I silenced _and_ destroyed those who hated me. 















###### 41 







They cried for help, but there was no one to save them-- Even to the LORD [they cried], but He did not answer them. 















###### 42 







Then I beat them fine as the dust before the wind; I emptied them out as the dirt of the streets. 















###### 43 







You have rescued me from the contentions of the people; You have placed me as the head of the nations; A people whom I have not known serve me. 















###### 44 







As soon as they hear me, they respond _and_ obey me; Foreigners feign obedience to me. 















###### 45 







Foreigners lose heart, And come trembling out of their strongholds. 















###### 46 







The LORD lives, blessed be my rock; And may the God of my salvation be exalted, 















###### 47 







The God who avenges me, And subdues peoples (nations) under me. 















###### 48 







He rescues me from my enemies; Yes, You lift me up above those who rise up against me; You deliver me from the man of violence. 















###### 49 







Therefore will I give thanks _and_ praise You, O LORD, among the nations, And sing praises to Your name. 















###### 50 







He gives great triumphs to His king, And shows steadfast love _and_ mercy to His anointed, To David and his descendants forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 18:23 Lit _complete_; or _having integrity_; or _perfect_. [^b]: Psalm 18:30 See v 23. [^c]: Psalm 18:33 I.e. the hoofs of a doe.
