---
Aliases: [Psalms 19]
previous: ['Ps 18']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 20']
---
# Psalms 19

***
















###### 1 







The heavens are telling of the glory of God; And the expanse [of heaven] is declaring the work of His hands. 















###### 2 







Day after day pours forth speech, And night after night reveals knowledge. 















###### 3 







There is no speech, nor are there [spoken] words [from the stars]; Their voice is not heard. 















###### 4 







Yet their voice [in quiet evidence] has gone out through all the earth, Their words to the end of the world. In them _and_ in the heavens He has made a tent for the sun, 















###### 5 







Which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber; It rejoices as a strong man to run his course. 















###### 6 







The sun's rising is from one end of the heavens, And its circuit to the other end of them; And there is nothing hidden from its heat. 















###### 7 







The law of the LORD is perfect (flawless), restoring _and_ refreshing the soul; The statutes of the LORD are reliable _and_ trustworthy, making wise the simple. 















###### 8 







The precepts of the LORD are right, bringing joy to the heart; The commandment of the LORD is pure, enlightening the eyes. 















###### 9 







The fear of the LORD is clean, enduring forever; The judgments of the LORD are true, they are righteous altogether. 















###### 10 







They are more desirable than gold, yes, than much fine gold; Sweeter also than honey and the drippings of the honeycomb. 















###### 11 







Moreover, by them Your servant is warned [reminded, illuminated, and instructed]; In keeping them there is great reward. 















###### 12 







Who can understand his errors _or_ omissions? Acquit me of hidden (unconscious, unintended) _faults_. 















###### 13 







Also keep back Your servant from presumptuous (deliberate, willful) _sins_; Let them not rule _and_ have control over me. Then I will be blameless (complete), And I shall be acquitted of great transgression. 















###### 14 







Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart Be acceptable _and_ pleasing in Your sight, O LORD, my [firm, immovable] rock and my Redeemer. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
