---
Aliases: [Psalms 109]
previous: ['Ps 108']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 110']
---
# Psalms 109

***
















###### 1 







O God of my praise! Do not keep silent, 















###### 2 







For the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of the deceitful are opened against me; They have spoken against me with a lying tongue. 















###### 3 







They have also surrounded me with words of hatred, And have fought against me without a cause. 















###### 4 







In return for my love, they attack me, But I am in prayer. 















###### 5 







They have repaid me evil for good, And hatred for my love. 















###### 6 







Appoint a wicked man against him, And let an attacker stand at his right hand [to kill him]. 















###### 7 







When he enters into dispute, let wickedness come about. Let his prayer [for help] result [only] in sin. 















###### 8 







Let his days be few; And let another take his office. 















###### 9 







Let his children be fatherless And his wife a widow. 















###### 10 







Let his children wander and beg; Let them seek their food _and_ be driven far from their ruined homes. 















###### 11 







Let the creditor seize all that he has, And let strangers plunder the product of his labor. 















###### 12 







Let there be no one to extend kindness to him, Nor let anyone be gracious to his fatherless children. 















###### 13 







Let his descendants be cut off, And in the following generation let their name be blotted out. 















###### 14 







Let the wickedness of his fathers be remembered by the LORD; And do not let the sin of his mother be blotted out. 















###### 15 







Let them be before the LORD continually, That He may cut off their memory from the earth; 















###### 16 







Because the man did not remember to show kindness, But persecuted the suffering and needy man, And the brokenhearted, to put them to death. 















###### 17 







He also loved cursing, and it came [back] to him; He did not delight in blessing, so it was far from him. 















###### 18 







He clothed himself with cursing as with his garment, And it seeped into his inner self like water And like [anointing] oil into his bones. 















###### 19 







Let it be to him as a robe with which he covers himself, And as a sash with which he is constantly bound. 















###### 20 







Let this be the reward of my attackers from the LORD, And of those who speak evil against my life. 















###### 21 







But You, O God, the Lord, show _kindness_ to me, for Your name's sake; Because Your lovingkindness (faithfulness, compassion) is good, O rescue me; 















###### 22 







For I am suffering and needy, And my heart is wounded within me. 















###### 23 







I am vanishing like a shadow when it lengthens _and_ fades; I am shaken off like the locust. 















###### 24 







My knees are unsteady from fasting; And my flesh is gaunt and without fatness. 















###### 25 







I also have become a reproach _and_ an object of taunting to others; When they see me, they shake their heads [in derision]. 















###### 26 







Help me, O LORD my God; Save me according to Your lovingkindness-- 















###### 27 







And let them know that this is Your hand; You, LORD, have done it. 















###### 28 







Let them curse, but You bless. When adversaries arise, let them be ashamed, But let Your servant rejoice. 















###### 29 







Let my attackers be clothed with dishonor, And let them cover themselves with their own shame as with a robe. 















###### 30 







I will give great praise _and_ thanks to the LORD with my mouth; And in the midst of many I will praise Him. 















###### 31 







For He will stand at the right hand of the needy, To save him from those who judge his soul. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
