---
Aliases: [Psalms 119]
previous: ['Ps 118']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 120']
---
# Psalms 119

***
















###### 1 







How blessed _and_ favored by God are those whose way is blameless [those with personal integrity, the upright, the guileless], Who walk in the law [and who are guided by the precepts and revealed will] of the LORD. 















###### 2 







Blessed _and_ favored by God are those who keep His testimonies, And who [consistently] seek Him _and_ long for Him with all their heart. 















###### 3 







They do no unrighteousness; They walk in His ways. 















###### 4 







You have ordained Your precepts, That we should follow them with [careful] diligence. 















###### 5 







Oh, that my ways may be established To observe _and_ keep Your statutes [obediently accepting and honoring them]! 















###### 6 







Then I will not be ashamed When I look [with respect] to all Your commandments [as my guide]. 















###### 7 







I will give thanks to You with an upright heart, When I learn [through discipline] Your righteous judgments [for my transgressions]. 















###### 8 







I shall keep Your statutes; Do not utterly abandon me [when I fail]. 















###### 9 







How can a young man keep his way pure? By keeping watch [on himself] according to Your word [conforming his life to Your precepts]. 















###### 10 







With all my heart I have sought You, [inquiring of You and longing for You]; Do not let me wander from Your commandments [neither through ignorance nor by willful disobedience]. 















###### 11 







Your word I have treasured _and_ stored in my heart, That I may not sin against You. 















###### 12 







Blessed _and_ reverently praised are You, O LORD; Teach me Your statutes. 















###### 13 







With my lips I have told of All the ordinances of Your mouth. 















###### 14 







I have rejoiced in the way of Your testimonies, As much as in all riches. 















###### 15 







I will meditate on Your precepts And [thoughtfully] regard Your ways [the path of life established by Your precepts]. 















###### 16 







I will delight in Your statutes; I will not forget Your word. 















###### 17 







Deal bountifully with Your servant, That I may live and keep Your word [treasuring it and being guided by it day by day]. 















###### 18 







Open my eyes [to spiritual truth] so that I may behold Wonderful things from Your law. 















###### 19 







I am a stranger on the earth; Do not hide Your commandments from me. 















###### 20 







My soul is crushed with longing For Your ordinances at all times. 















###### 21 







You rebuke the presumptuous _and_ arrogant, the cursed _ones_, Who wander from Your commandments. 















###### 22 







Take reproach and contempt away from me, For I observe Your testimonies. 















###### 23 







Even though princes sit and talk to one another against me, Your servant meditates on Your statutes. 















###### 24 







Your testimonies also are my delight And my counselors. 















###### 25 







My earthly life clings to the dust; Revive _and_ refresh me according to Your word. 















###### 26 







I have told of my ways, and You have answered me; Teach me Your statutes. 















###### 27 







Make me understand the way of Your precepts, So that I will meditate (focus my thoughts) on Your wonderful works. 















###### 28 







My soul dissolves because of grief; Renew _and_ strengthen me according to [the promises of] Your word. 















###### 29 







Remove from me the way of falsehood _and_ unfaithfulness, And graciously grant me Your law. 















###### 30 







I have chosen the faithful way; I have placed Your ordinances _before me_. 















###### 31 







I cling tightly to Your testimonies; O LORD, do not put me to shame! 















###### 32 







I will run the way of Your commandments [with purpose], For You will give me a heart that is willing. 















###### 33 







Teach me, O LORD, the way of Your statutes, And I will [steadfastly] observe it to the end. 















###### 34 







Give me understanding [a teachable heart and the ability to learn], that I may keep Your law; And observe it with all my heart. 















###### 35 







Make me walk in the path of Your commandments, For I delight in it. 















###### 36 







Incline my heart to Your testimonies And not to _dishonest_ gain _and_ envy. 















###### 37 







Turn my eyes away from vanity [all those worldly, meaningless things that distract--let Your priorities be mine], And restore me [with renewed energy] in Your ways. 















###### 38 







Establish Your word _and_ confirm Your promise to Your servant, As that which produces [awe-inspired] reverence for You. 















###### 39 







Turn away my reproach which I dread, For Your ordinances are good. 















###### 40 







I long for Your precepts; Renew me through Your righteousness. 















###### 41 







May Your lovingkindness also come to me, O LORD, Your salvation according to Your promise; 















###### 42 







So I will have an answer for the one who taunts me, For I trust [completely] in Your word [and its reliability]. 















###### 43 







And do not take the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, For I wait for Your ordinances. 















###### 44 







I will keep Your law continually, Forever and ever [writing Your precepts on my heart]. 















###### 45 







And I will walk at liberty, For I seek _and_ deeply long for Your precepts. 















###### 46 







I will also speak of Your testimonies before kings And shall not be ashamed. 















###### 47 







For I shall delight in Your commandments, Which I love. 















###### 48 







And I shall lift up my hands to Your commandments, Which I love; And I will meditate on Your statutes. 















###### 49 







Remember [always] the word _and_ promise to Your servant, In which You have made me hope. 















###### 50 







This is my comfort in my affliction, That Your word has revived me _and_ given me life. 















###### 51 







The arrogant utterly ridicule me, Yet I do not turn away from Your law. 















###### 52 







I have remembered [carefully] Your ancient ordinances, O LORD, And I have taken comfort. 















###### 53 







Burning indignation has seized me because of the wicked, Who [^b]reject Your law. 















###### 54 







Your statutes are my songs In the house of my pilgrimage. 















###### 55 







O LORD, I remember Your name in the night, And keep Your law. 















###### 56 







This has become mine [as the gift of Your grace], That I observe Your precepts [accepting them with loving obedience]. 















###### 57 







The LORD is my portion; I have promised to keep Your words. 















###### 58 







I sought Your favor with all my heart; Be merciful _and_ gracious to me according to Your promise. 















###### 59 







I considered my ways And turned my feet to [follow and obey] Your testimonies. 















###### 60 







I hurried and did not delay To keep Your commandments. 















###### 61 







The cords of the wicked have encircled _and_ ensnared me, But I have not forgotten Your law. 















###### 62 







At midnight I will rise to give thanks to You Because of Your righteous ordinances. 















###### 63 







I am a companion of all who [reverently] fear You, And of those who keep _and_ honor Your precepts. 















###### 64 







The earth, O LORD, is full of Your lovingkindness _and_ goodness; Teach me Your statutes. 















###### 65 







You have dealt well with Your servant, O LORD, according to Your promise. 















###### 66 







Teach me good judgment (discernment) and knowledge, For I have believed _and_ trusted _and_ relied on Your commandments. 















###### 67 







Before I was afflicted I went astray, But now I keep _and_ honor Your word [with loving obedience]. 















###### 68 







You are good and do good; Teach me Your statutes. 















###### 69 







The arrogant have forged a lie against me, But I will keep Your precepts with all my heart. 















###### 70 







Their heart is insensitive like fat [their minds are dull and brutal], But I delight in Your law. 















###### 71 







It is good for me that I have been afflicted, That I may learn Your statutes. 















###### 72 







The law from Your mouth is better to me Than thousands of gold and silver _pieces_. 















###### 73 







Your hands have made me and established me; Give me understanding _and_ a teachable heart, that I may learn Your commandments. 















###### 74 







May those who [reverently] fear You see me and be glad, Because I wait for Your word. 















###### 75 







I know, O LORD, that Your judgments are fair, And that in faithfulness You have disciplined me. 















###### 76 







O may Your lovingkindness _and_ graciousness comfort me, According to Your word (promise) to Your servant. 















###### 77 







Let Your compassion come to me that I may live, For Your law is my delight. 















###### 78 







Let the arrogant be ashamed _and_ humiliated, for they sabotage me with a lie; But I will meditate on Your precepts. 















###### 79 







May those who fear You [with submissive wonder] turn to me, Even those who have known Your testimonies. 















###### 80 







May my heart be blameless in Your statutes, So that I will not be ashamed. 















###### 81 







My soul languishes _and_ grows weak for Your salvation; I wait for Your word. 















###### 82 







My eyes fail [with longing, watching] for [the fulfillment of] Your promise, Saying, "When will You comfort me?" 















###### 83 







For I have become like a wineskin [blackened and shriveled] in the smoke [in which it hangs], Yet I do not forget Your statutes. 















###### 84 







How many are the days of Your servant [which he must endure]? When will You execute judgment on those who persecute me? 















###### 85 







The arrogant (godless) have dug pits for me, Men who do not conform to Your law. 















###### 86 







All Your commandments are faithful _and_ trustworthy. They have persecuted me with a lie; help me [LORD]! 















###### 87 







They had almost destroyed me on earth, But as for me, I did not [^c]turn away from Your precepts. 















###### 88 







According to Your steadfast love refresh me _and_ give me life, So that I may keep _and_ obey the testimony of Your mouth. 















###### 89 







Forever, O LORD, Your word is settled in heaven [standing firm and unchangeable]. 















###### 90 







Your faithfulness _continues_ from generation to generation; You have established the earth, and it stands [securely]. 















###### 91 







They continue this day according to Your ordinances, For all things [all parts of the universe] are Your servants. 















###### 92 







If Your law had not been my delight, Then I would have perished in my time of trouble. 















###### 93 







I will never forget Your precepts, For by them You have revived me _and_ given me life. 















###### 94 







I am Yours, save me [as Your own]; For I have [diligently] sought Your precepts _and_ required them [as my greatest need]. 















###### 95 







The wicked wait for me to destroy me, But I will consider Your testimonies. 















###### 96 







I have seen that all [human] perfection has its limits [no matter how grand and perfect and noble]; Your commandment is exceedingly broad _and_ extends without limits [into eternity]. 















###### 97 







Oh, how I love Your law! It is my meditation all the day. 















###### 98 







Your commandments make me wiser than my enemies, For Your words are always with me. 















###### 99 







I have better understanding _and_ deeper insight than all my teachers [because of Your word], For Your testimonies are my meditation. 















###### 100 







I understand more than the aged [who have not observed Your precepts], Because I have observed _and_ kept Your precepts. 















###### 101 







I have restrained my feet from every evil way, That I may keep Your word. 















###### 102 







I have not turned aside from Your ordinances, For You Yourself have taught me. 















###### 103 







How sweet are Your words to my taste, _Sweeter_ than honey to my mouth! 















###### 104 







From Your precepts I get understanding; Therefore I hate every false way. 















###### 105 







Your word is a lamp to my feet And a light to my path. 















###### 106 







I have sworn [an oath] and have confirmed it, That I will keep Your righteous ordinances. 















###### 107 







I am greatly afflicted; Renew _and_ revive me [giving me life], O LORD, according to Your word. 















###### 108 







Accept _and_ take pleasure in the freewill offerings of my mouth, O LORD, And teach me Your ordinances. 















###### 109 







My life is continually [^d]in my hand, Yet I do not forget Your law. 















###### 110 







The wicked have laid a snare for me, Yet I do not wander from Your precepts. 















###### 111 







I have taken Your testimonies as a heritage forever, For they are the joy of my heart. 















###### 112 







I have inclined my heart to perform Your statutes Forever, even to the end. 















###### 113 







I hate those who are double-minded, But I love _and_ treasure Your law. 















###### 114 







You are my hiding place and my shield; I wait for Your word. 















###### 115 







Leave me, you evildoers, That I may keep the commandments of my God [honoring and obeying them]. 















###### 116 







Uphold me according to Your word [of promise], so that I may live; And do not let me be ashamed of my hope [in Your great goodness]. 















###### 117 







Uphold me that I may be safe, That I may have regard for Your statutes continually. 















###### 118 







You have turned Your back on all those who wander from Your statutes, For their deceitfulness is useless. 















###### 119 







You have removed all the wicked of the earth like dross [for they have no value]; Therefore I love Your testimonies. 















###### 120 







My flesh trembles in [reverent] fear of You, And I am afraid _and_ in awe of Your judgments. 















###### 121 







I have done justice and righteousness; Do not leave me to those who oppress me. 















###### 122 







Be the guarantee for Your servant for good [as Judah was the guarantee for Benjamin]; Do not let the arrogant oppress me. 















###### 123 







My eyes fail [with longing, watching] for [the fulfillment of] Your salvation, And for [the fulfillment of] Your righteous word. 















###### 124 







Deal with Your servant according to Your [gracious] lovingkindness, And teach me Your statutes. 















###### 125 







I am Your servant; give me understanding [the ability to learn and a teachable heart] That I may know Your testimonies. 















###### 126 







It is time for the LORD to act; They have broken Your law. 















###### 127 







Therefore I love Your commandments more than gold, Yes, more than refined gold. 















###### 128 







Therefore I esteem as right all Your precepts concerning everything; I hate every false way. 















###### 129 







Your testimonies are wonderful; Therefore my soul keeps them. 















###### 130 







The unfolding of Your [glorious] words give light; Their unfolding gives understanding to the simple (childlike). 















###### 131 







I opened my mouth and panted [with anticipation], Because I longed for Your commandments. 















###### 132 







Turn to me and be gracious to me _and_ show me favor, As is Your way to those who love Your name. 















###### 133 







Establish my footsteps in [the way of] Your word; Do not let any human weakness have power over me [causing me to be separated from You]. 















###### 134 







Redeem me from the oppression of man; That I may keep Your precepts. 















###### 135 







Make Your face shine [with pleasure] upon Your servant, And teach me Your statutes. 















###### 136 







My eyes weep streams of water Because people do not keep Your law. 















###### 137 







Righteous are You, O LORD, And upright are Your judgments. 















###### 138 







You have commanded Your testimonies in righteousness And in great faithfulness. 















###### 139 







My zeal has [completely] consumed me, Because my enemies have forgotten Your words. 















###### 140 







Your word is very pure (refined); Therefore Your servant loves it. 















###### 141 







I am small and despised, But I do not forget Your precepts. 















###### 142 







Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, And Your law is truth. 















###### 143 







Trouble and anguish have found me, Yet Your commandments are my delight _and_ my joy. 















###### 144 







Your righteous testimonies are everlasting; Give me understanding [the ability to learn and a teachable heart] that I may live. 















###### 145 







I cried with all my heart; answer me, O LORD! I will observe Your statutes. 















###### 146 







I cried to You; save me And I will keep Your testimonies. 















###### 147 







I rise before dawn and cry [in prayer] for help; I wait for Your word. 















###### 148 







My eyes anticipate the night watches _and_ I awake before the call of the watchman, That I may meditate on Your word. 















###### 149 







Hear my voice according to Your [steadfast] lovingkindness; O LORD, renew _and_ refresh me according to Your ordinances. 















###### 150 







Those who follow after wickedness approach; They are far from Your law. 















###### 151 







You are near, O LORD, And all Your commandments are truth. 















###### 152 







Of old I have known from Your testimonies That You have founded them forever. 















###### 153 







Look upon my agony and rescue me, For I do not forget Your law. 















###### 154 







Plead my cause and redeem me; Revive me _and_ give me life according to [the promise of] Your word. 















###### 155 







Salvation is far from the wicked, For they do not seek Your statutes. 















###### 156 







Great are Your tender mercies _and_ steadfast love, O LORD; Revive me _and_ give me life according to Your ordinances. 















###### 157 







Many are my persecutors and my adversaries, Yet I do not turn away from Your testimonies. 















###### 158 







I see the treacherous and loathe them, Because they do not respect Your law. 















###### 159 







Consider how I love Your precepts; Revive me _and_ give me life, O LORD, according to Your lovingkindness. 















###### 160 







The sum of Your word is truth [the full meaning of all Your precepts], And every one of Your righteous ordinances endures forever. 















###### 161 







Princes persecute me without cause, But my heart stands in [reverent] awe of Your words [so I can expect You to help me]. 















###### 162 







I rejoice at Your word, As one who finds great treasure. 















###### 163 







I hate and detest falsehood, But I love Your law. 















###### 164 







[^e]Seven times a day I praise You, Because of Your righteous ordinances. 















###### 165 







Those who love Your law have great peace; Nothing makes them stumble. 















###### 166 







I hope _and_ wait [with complete confidence] for Your salvation, O LORD, And I do Your commandments. 















###### 167 







My soul keeps Your testimonies [hearing and accepting and obeying them]; I love them greatly. 















###### 168 







I keep Your precepts and Your testimonies, For all my ways are [fully known] before You. 















###### 169 







Let my [mournful] cry come before You, O LORD; Give me understanding [the ability to learn and a teachable heart] according to Your word [of promise]. 















###### 170 







Let my supplication come before You; Deliver me according to Your word. 















###### 171 







Let my lips speak praise [with thanksgiving], For You teach me Your statutes. 















###### 172 







Let my tongue sing [praise for the fulfillment] of Your word, For all Your commandments are righteous. 















###### 173 







Let Your hand be ready to help me, For I have chosen Your precepts. 















###### 174 







I long for Your salvation, O LORD, And Your law is my delight. 















###### 175 







Let my soul live that it may praise You, And let Your ordinances help me. 















###### 176 







I have gone astray like a lost sheep; Seek Your servant, for I do not forget Your commandments. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 119:1 This long Psalm (176 verses) consists of separate units, each of which has its first word beginning with a consecutive letter of the Hebrew alphabet as a memory aid. The first verse begins with the first letter of the alphabet, aleph (first letter of the word _blessed_), and the last unit of the Psalm (vv 169-176) begins with tav, the last letter of the Hebrew alphabet. [^b]: Psalm 119:53 Lit _forsake_. [^c]: Psalm 119:87 Lit _forsake_. [^d]: Psalm 119:109 I.e. in danger. [^e]: Psalm 119:164 The number seven sometimes represents a continuing action or a sufficiently high number of actions (cf Matt 18:21).
