---
Aliases: [Psalms 115]
previous: ['Ps 114']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 116']
---
# Psalms 115

***
















###### 1 







Not to us, O LORD, not to us, But to Your name give glory Because of Your lovingkindness, because of Your truth _and_ faithfulness. 















###### 2 







Why should the nations say, "Where, now, is their God?" 















###### 3 







But our God is in heaven; He does whatever He pleases. 















###### 4 







The idols [of the nations] are silver and gold, The work of man's hands. 















###### 5 







They have mouths, but they cannot speak; They have eyes, but they cannot see; 















###### 6 







They have ears, but they cannot hear; They have noses, but they cannot smell; 















###### 7 







They have hands, but they cannot feel; They have feet, but they cannot walk; Nor can they make a sound with their throats. 















###### 8 







Those who make them will become like them, Everyone who trusts in them. 















###### 9 







O Israel, trust _and_ take refuge in the LORD! [Be confident in Him, cling to Him, rely on His word!] He is their help and their shield. 















###### 10 







O house of Aaron, trust in the LORD; He is their help and their shield. 















###### 11 







You who [reverently] fear the LORD, trust in LORD; He is their help and their shield. 















###### 12 







The LORD has been mindful of us; He will bless, He will bless the house of Israel; He will bless the house of Aaron. 















###### 13 







He will bless those who fear _and_ worship the LORD [with awe-inspired reverence and submissive wonder], Both the small and the great. 















###### 14 







May the LORD give you [great] increase, You and your children. 















###### 15 







May you be blessed of the LORD, Who made heaven and earth. 















###### 16 







The heavens are the heavens of the LORD, But the earth He has given to the children of men. 















###### 17 







The dead do not praise the LORD, Nor do any who go down into silence; 















###### 18 







But as for us, we will bless _and_ affectionately and gratefully praise the LORD From this time forth and forever. Praise the LORD! (Hallelujah!) ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
