---
Aliases: [Psalms 141]
previous: ['Ps 140']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 142']
---
# Psalms 141

***
















###### 1 







LORD, I call upon You; hurry to me. Listen to my voice when I call to You. 















###### 2 







Let my prayer be counted as incense before You; The lifting up of my hands as the evening offering. 















###### 3 







Set a guard, O LORD, over my mouth; Keep watch over the door of my lips [to keep me from speaking thoughtlessly]. 















###### 4 







Do not incline my heart to [consent to or tolerate] any evil thing, Or to practice deeds of wickedness With men who plan _and_ do evil; And let me not eat of their delicacies (be tempted by their gain). 















###### 5 







Let the righteous [thoughtfully] strike (correct) me--it is a kindness [done to encourage my spiritual maturity]. It is [the choicest anointing] oil on the head; Let my head not refuse [to accept and acknowledge and learn from] it; For still my prayer is against their wicked deeds. 















###### 6 







Their [wicked, godless] judges are thrown down the sides of the rocky cliff, And they [who followed them] will hear my words, for they are pleasant (just). 















###### 7 







As when the one plows and breaks open the ground [and the soil scatters behind him], Our bones have been scattered at the mouth of Sheol [by the injustices of the wicked]. 















###### 8 







For my eyes are toward You, O God, the Lord; In You I take refuge; do not pour out my life _nor_ leave me defenseless. 















###### 9 







Keep me from the jaws of the trap which they have set for me, And from the snares of those who do evil. 















###### 10 







Let the wicked fall into their own nets, While I pass by _and_ safely escape [from danger]. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
