---
Aliases: [Psalms 132]
previous: ['Ps 131']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 133']
---
# Psalms 132

***
















###### 1 







O LORD, remember on David's behalf All his hardship _and_ affliction; 















###### 2 







How he swore to the LORD And vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob: 















###### 3 







"I absolutely will not enter my house, Nor get into my bed-- 















###### 4 







I certainly will not permit my eyes to sleep Nor my eyelids to slumber, 















###### 5 







Until I find a place for the LORD, A dwelling place for the Mighty One of Jacob (Israel)." 















###### 6 







Behold, we heard of it at Ephrathah; We found it in the field of Jaar. 















###### 7 







Let us go into His tabernacle; Let us worship at His footstool. 















###### 8 







Arise, O LORD, to Your resting place, You and the ark [the symbol] of Your strength. 















###### 9 







Let Your priests be clothed with righteousness (right living), And let Your godly ones shout for joy. 















###### 10 







For the sake of Your servant David, Do not turn away the face of Your anointed. 















###### 11 







The LORD swore to David A truth from which He will not turn back: "One of your [^b]descendants I will set upon your throne. 















###### 12 







"If your children will keep My covenant And My testimony which I will teach them, Their children also shall sit upon your throne forever." 















###### 13 







For the LORD has chosen Zion; He has desired it for His dwelling place: 















###### 14 







"This is My resting place forever" [says the LORD]; "Here will I dwell, for I have desired it. 















###### 15 







"I will abundantly bless her provisions; I will satisfy her poor with bread. 















###### 16 







"Her priests also I will clothe with salvation, And her godly ones will shout aloud for joy. 















###### 17 







"There I will make the horn (strength) of David grow; I have prepared a lamp for My anointed [fulfilling the promises]. 















###### 18 







"His enemies I will clothe with shame, But upon himself shall his crown shine." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 132:1 See Psalm 120 title note. [^b]: Psalm 132:11 Lit _the fruit of your body_.
