---
Aliases: [Psalms 135]
previous: ['Ps 134']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 136']
---
# Psalms 135

***
















###### 1 







Praise the LORD! (Hallelujah!) Praise the name of the LORD; Praise Him, O servants of the LORD (priests, Levites), 















###### 2 







You who stand in the house of the LORD, In the courts of the house of our God, 















###### 3 







Praise the LORD, for the LORD is good; Sing praises to His name, for it is gracious _and_ lovely. 















###### 4 







For the LORD has chosen [the descendants of] Jacob for Himself, Israel for His own special treasure _and_ possession. 















###### 5 







For I know that the LORD is great And that our Lord is above all gods. 















###### 6 







Whatever the LORD pleases, He does, In the heavens and on the earth, in the seas and all deeps-- 















###### 7 







Who causes the clouds to rise from the ends of the earth; Who makes lightning for the rain, Who brings the wind from His storehouses; 















###### 8 







Who struck the firstborn of Egypt, Both of man and animal; 















###### 9 







Who sent signs and wonders into your midst, O Egypt, Upon Pharaoh and all his servants. 















###### 10 







Who struck many nations And killed mighty kings, 















###### 11 







Sihon, king of the Amorites, Og, king of Bashan, And all the kingdoms of Canaan; 















###### 12 







And He gave their land as a heritage, A heritage to Israel His people. 















###### 13 







Your name, O LORD, endures forever, Your fame _and_ remembrance, O LORD, [endures] throughout all generations. 















###### 14 







For the LORD will judge His people And He will have compassion on His servants [revealing His mercy]. 















###### 15 







The idols of the nations are silver and gold, The work of men's hands. 















###### 16 







They have mouths, but they do not speak; They have eyes, but they do not see; 















###### 17 







They have ears, but they do not hear, Nor is there any breath in their mouths. 















###### 18 







Those who make idols are like them [absolutely worthless--spiritually blind, deaf, and powerless]; So is everyone who trusts in _and_ relies on them. 















###### 19 







O house of Israel, bless _and_ praise the LORD [with gratitude]; O house of Aaron, bless the LORD; 















###### 20 







O house of Levi, bless the LORD; You who fear the LORD [and worship Him with obedience], bless the LORD [with grateful praise]! 















###### 21 







Blessed be the LORD from Zion, Who dwells [with us] at Jerusalem. Praise the LORD! (Hallelujah!) ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
