---
Aliases: [Psalms 113]
previous: ['Ps 112']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 114']
---
# Psalms 113

***
















###### 1 







[^a]Praise the LORD! ([^b]Hallelujah!) Praise, O servants of the LORD, Praise the name of the LORD. 















###### 2 







Blessed be the name of the LORD From this time forth and forever. 















###### 3 







From the rising of the sun to its setting The name of the LORD is to be praised [with awe-inspired reverence]. 















###### 4 







The LORD is high above all nations, And His glory above the heavens. 















###### 5 







Who is like the LORD our God, Who is enthroned on high, 















###### 6 







Who humbles Himself to regard The heavens and the earth? 















###### 7 







He raises the poor out of the dust And lifts the needy from the ash heap, 















###### 8 







That He may seat them with princes, With the princes of His people. 















###### 9 







He makes the barren woman live in the house As a joyful mother of children. Praise the LORD! (Hallelujah!) ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 113:1 It is said that Psalms 113-118 were ordained by the prophets and Torah scholars to be recited as a unit on special holy days. The unit was called the _Hallel_ (Heb “Praise”). [^b]: Psalm 113:1 According to Jewish tradition, one who had the office of Reader in a congregation would read the Psalms of the _Hallel_ aloud, and when he came to a command to “Praise the Lord” (Heb _Halelu Yah_), it was the congregation’s duty to respond with “Hallelujah!”
