---
Aliases: [Psalms 143]
previous: ['Ps 142']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 144']
---
# Psalms 143

***
















###### 1 







Hear my prayer, O LORD, Listen to my supplications! Answer me in Your faithfulness, and in Your righteousness. 















###### 2 







And do not enter into judgment with Your servant, For in Your sight no man living is righteous _or_ justified. 















###### 3 







For the enemy has persecuted me, He has crushed my life down to the ground; He has made me dwell in dark places, like those who have been long dead. 















###### 4 







Therefore my spirit is overwhelmed _and_ weak within me [wrapped in darkness]; My heart grows numb within me. 















###### 5 







I remember the days of old; I meditate on all that You have done; I ponder the work of Your hands. 















###### 6 







I reach out my hands to You; My throat _thirsts_ for You, as a parched land [thirsts for water]. Selah. 















###### 7 







Answer me quickly, O LORD, my spirit fails; Do not hide Your face from me, Or I will become like those who go down into the pit (grave). 















###### 8 







Let me hear Your lovingkindness in the morning, For I trust in You. Teach me the way in which I should walk, For I lift up my soul to You. 















###### 9 







Rescue me, O LORD, from my enemies; I take refuge in You. 















###### 10 







Teach me to do Your will [so that I may please You], For You are my God; Let Your good Spirit lead me on level ground. 















###### 11 







Save my life, O LORD, for Your name's sake; In Your righteousness bring my life out of trouble. 















###### 12 







In your lovingkindness, silence _and_ destroy my enemies And destroy all those who afflict my life, For I am Your servant. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
