---
Aliases: [Psalms 27]
previous: ['Ps 26']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 28']
---
# Psalms 27

***
















###### 1 







The LORD is my light and my salvation-- Whom shall I fear? The LORD is the refuge _and_ fortress of my life-- Whom shall I dread? 















###### 2 







When the wicked came against me to eat up my flesh, My adversaries and my enemies, they stumbled and fell. 















###### 3 







Though an army encamp against me, My heart will not fear; Though war arise against me, Even in this I am confident. 















###### 4 







One thing I have asked of the LORD, and that I will seek: That I may dwell in the house of the LORD [in His presence] all the days of my life, To gaze upon the beauty [the delightful loveliness and majestic grandeur] of the LORD And to meditate in His temple. 















###### 5 







For in the day of trouble He will hide me in His shelter; In the secret place of His tent He will hide me; He will lift me up on a rock. 















###### 6 







And now my head will be lifted up above my enemies around me, In His tent I will offer sacrifices with shouts of joy; I will sing, yes, I will sing praises to the LORD. 















###### 7 







Hear, O LORD, when I cry aloud; Be gracious _and_ compassionate to me and answer me. 















###### 8 







_When You said_, "Seek My face [in prayer, require My presence as your greatest need]," my heart said to You, "Your face, O LORD, I will seek [on the authority of Your word]." 















###### 9 







Do not hide Your face from me, Do not turn Your servant away in anger; You have been my help; Do not abandon me nor [^a]leave me, O God of my salvation! 















###### 10 







Although my father and my mother have abandoned me, Yet the LORD will take me up [adopt me as His child]. 















###### 11 







Teach me Your way, O LORD, And lead me on a level path Because of my enemies [who lie in wait]. 















###### 12 







Do not give me up to the will of my adversaries, For false witnesses have come against me; They breathe out violence. 















###### 13 







_I would have despaired_ had I not believed that I would see the goodness of the LORD In the land of the living. 















###### 14 







Wait for _and_ confidently expect the LORD; Be strong and let your heart take courage; Yes, wait for _and_ confidently expect the LORD. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 27:9 Lit _forsake_.
