---
Aliases: [Psalms 29]
previous: ['Ps 28']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 30']
---
# Psalms 29

***
















###### 1 







[^a]Ascribe to the LORD, O [^b]sons of the mighty, Ascribe to the LORD glory and strength. 















###### 2 







Ascribe to the LORD the glory due His name; Worship the LORD in the beauty _and_ majesty of His holiness [as the creator and source of holiness]. 















###### 3 







The voice of the LORD is upon the waters; The God of glory thunders; The LORD is over many waters. 















###### 4 







The voice of the LORD is powerful; The voice of the LORD is full of majesty. 















###### 5 







The voice of the LORD breaks the cedars; Yes, the LORD breaks in pieces the cedars of Lebanon. 















###### 6 







He makes Lebanon skip like a calf, And Sirion (Mount Hermon) like a young, wild ox. 















###### 7 







The voice of the LORD rakes flames of fire (lightning). 















###### 8 







The voice of the LORD shakes the wilderness; The LORD shakes the wilderness of Kadesh. 















###### 9 







The voice of the LORD [^c]makes the doe labor _and_ give birth And strips the forests bare; And in His temple all are saying, "Glory!" 















###### 10 







The LORD sat _as King_ at the flood; Yes, the LORD sits as King forever. 















###### 11 







The LORD will give [unyielding and impenetrable] strength to His people; The LORD will bless His people with peace. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 29:1 This psalm has been called “The Song of the Thunderstorm,” a glorious psalm of praise sung during an earthshaking tempest which reminds the psalmist of the time of Noah and the deluge (see v 10). [^b]: Psalm 29:1 The ancient rabbis interpreted this as referring to the patriarchs. Today many scholars regard this as a reference to God’s angels. [^c]: Psalm 29:9 Or _makes the oaks shake_.
