---
Aliases: [Psalms 26]
previous: ['Ps 25']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 27']
---
# Psalms 26

***
















###### 1 







Vindicate me, O LORD, for I have walked in my integrity; I have [relied on and] trusted [confidently] in the LORD without wavering _and_ I shall not slip. 















###### 2 







Examine me, O LORD, and try me; Test my heart and my mind. 















###### 3 







For Your lovingkindness is before my eyes, And I have walked [faithfully] in Your truth. 















###### 4 







I do not sit with deceitful _or_ unethical _or_ worthless men, Nor seek companionship with pretenders (self-righteous hypocrites). 















###### 5 







I hate the company of evildoers, And will not sit with the wicked. 















###### 6 







I will wash my hands in innocence, And I will go about Your altar, O LORD, 















###### 7 







That I may proclaim with the voice of thanksgiving And declare all Your wonders. 















###### 8 







O LORD, I love the habitation of Your house And the place where Your glory dwells. 















###### 9 







Do not sweep my soul away with sinners, Nor [sweep away] my life with men of bloodshed, 















###### 10 







In whose hands is a wicked scheme, And whose right hand is full of bribes. 















###### 11 







But as for me, I shall walk in my integrity; Redeem me and be merciful _and_ gracious to me. 















###### 12 







My foot stands on a level place; In the congregations I will bless the LORD. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
