---
Aliases: [Psalms 22]
previous: ['Ps 21']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 23']
---
# Psalms 22

***
















###### 1 







[^a]My God, my God, why have You forsaken me? Why are You so far from helping me, and from the words of my groaning? 















###### 2 







O my God, I call out by day, but You do not answer; And by night, but I find no rest _nor_ quiet. 















###### 3 







But You are holy, O You who are enthroned in [the holy place where] the praises of Israel [are offered]. 















###### 4 







In You our fathers trusted [leaned on, relied on, and were confident]; They trusted and You rescued them. 















###### 5 







They cried out to You and were delivered; They trusted in You and were not disappointed _or_ ashamed. 















###### 6 







But I am [treated as] a worm [insignificant and powerless] and not a man; I am the scorn of men and despised by the people. 















###### 7 







All who see me laugh at me _and_ mock me; They [insultingly] open their lips, they shake their head, _saying_, 















###### 8 







"He trusted _and_ committed himself to the LORD, let Him save him. Let Him rescue him, because He delights in him." 















###### 9 







Yet You are He who pulled me out of the womb; You made me trust when on my mother's breasts. 















###### 10 







I was cast upon You from birth; From my mother's womb You have been my God. 















###### 11 







Do not be far from me, for trouble is near; And there is no one to help. 















###### 12 







Many [enemies like] bulls have surrounded me; Strong _bulls_ of Bashan have encircled me. 















###### 13 







They open wide their mouths against me, Like a ravening and a roaring lion. 















###### 14 







I am poured out like water, And all my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax; It is melted [by anguish] within me. 















###### 15 







My strength is dried up like a fragment of clay pottery; And my [dry] tongue clings to my jaws; And You have laid me in the dust of death. 















###### 16 







For [a pack of] dogs have surrounded me; A gang of evildoers has encircled me, They pierced my hands and my feet. 















###### 17 







I can count all my bones; They look, they stare at me. 















###### 18 







They divide my clothing among them And cast lots for my [^b]garment. 















###### 19 







But You, O LORD, do not be far from me; O You my help, come quickly to my assistance. 















###### 20 







Rescue my life from the sword, My only _life_ from the paw of the dog (the executioner). 















###### 21 







Save me from the lion's mouth; From the horns of the wild oxen You answer me. 















###### 22 







I will tell of Your name to my countrymen; In the midst of the congregation I will praise You. 















###### 23 







You who fear the LORD [with awe-inspired reverence], praise Him! All you descendants of Jacob, honor Him. Fear Him [with submissive wonder], all you descendants of Israel. 















###### 24 







For He has not despised nor detested the suffering of the afflicted; Nor has He hidden His face from him; But when he cried to Him for help, He listened. 















###### 25 







My praise will be of You in the great assembly. I will pay my vows [made in the time of trouble] before those who [reverently] fear Him. 















###### 26 







The afflicted will eat and be satisfied; Those who [diligently] seek Him _and_ require Him [as their greatest need] will praise the LORD. May your hearts live forever! 















###### 27 







All the ends of the earth will remember and turn to the LORD, And all the families of the nations will bow down _and_ worship before You, 















###### 28 







For the kingship _and_ the kingdom are the Lord's And He rules over the nations. 















###### 29 







All the prosperous of the earth will eat and worship; All those who go down to the dust (the dead) will bow before Him, Even he who cannot keep his soul alive. 















###### 30 







Posterity will serve Him; They will tell of the Lord to the next generation. 















###### 31 







They will come and declare His righteousness To a people yet to be born--that He has done it [and that it is finished]. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 22:1 This psalm may have been prayed by Jesus when He was on the cross. It begins with, “My God, my God, why have You forsaken me?” and ends with a thought of finality. The psalm is quoted in Matt 27:46; Mark 15:34; and alluded to in Matt 27:35, 39, 43 and John 19:23, 24, 28 as being fulfilled at Christ’s crucifixion. [^b]: Psalm 22:18 A prophetic reference to the long, seamless shirt-like tunic worn by Jesus as an undergarment.
