---
Aliases: [Psalms 25]
previous: ['Ps 24']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 26']
---
# Psalms 25

***
















###### 1 







To You, O LORD, I lift up my soul. 















###### 2 







O my God, in You I [have unwavering] trust [and I rely on You with steadfast confidence], Do not let me be ashamed _or_ my hope in You be disappointed; Do not let my enemies triumph over me. 















###### 3 







Indeed, none of those who [expectantly] wait for You will be ashamed; Those who turn away from what is right _and_ deal treacherously without cause will be ashamed (humiliated, embarrassed). 















###### 4 







Let me know Your ways, O LORD; Teach me Your paths. 















###### 5 







Guide me in Your truth and teach me, For You are the God of my salvation; For You [and only You] I wait [expectantly] all the day long. 















###### 6 







Remember, O LORD, Your [tender] compassion and Your lovingkindnesses, For they have been from of old. 















###### 7 







Do not remember the sins of my youth or my transgressions; According to Your lovingkindness remember me, For Your goodness' sake, O LORD. 















###### 8 







Good and upright is the LORD; Therefore He instructs sinners in the way. 















###### 9 







He leads the humble in justice, And He teaches the humble His way. 















###### 10 







All the paths of the LORD are lovingkindness _and_ goodness and truth _and_ faithfulness To those who keep His covenant and His testimonies. 















###### 11 







For Your name's sake, O LORD, Pardon my wickedness _and_ my guilt, for they are great. 















###### 12 







Who is the man who fears the LORD [with awe-inspired reverence and worships Him with submissive wonder]? He will teach him [through His word] in the way he should choose. 















###### 13 







His soul will dwell in prosperity _and_ goodness, And his descendants will inherit the land. 















###### 14 







The secret [of the wise counsel] of the LORD is for those who fear Him, And He will let them know His covenant _and_ reveal to them [through His word] its [deep, inner] meaning. 















###### 15 







My eyes are continually toward the LORD, For He will bring my feet out of the net. 















###### 16 







Turn to me [LORD] and be gracious to me, For I am alone and afflicted. 















###### 17 







The troubles of my heart are multiplied; Bring me out of my distresses. 















###### 18 







Look upon my affliction and my trouble, And forgive all my sins. 















###### 19 







Look upon my enemies, for they are many; They hate me with cruel _and_ violent hatred. 















###### 20 







Guard my soul and rescue me; Do not let me be ashamed _or_ disappointed, For I have taken refuge in You. 















###### 21 







Let integrity and uprightness protect me, For I wait [expectantly] for You. 















###### 22 







O God, redeem Israel, Out of all his troubles. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
