---
Aliases: [Psalms 20]
previous: ['Ps 19']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 21']
---
# Psalms 20

***
















###### 1 







[^a]May the LORD answer you (David) in the day of trouble! May the name of the God of Jacob set you _securely_ on high [and defend you in battle]! 















###### 2 







May He send you help from the sanctuary (His dwelling place) And support _and_ strengthen you from Zion! 















###### 3 







May He remember all your meal offerings And accept your burnt offering. Selah. 















###### 4 







May He grant you your heart's desire And fulfill all your plans. 















###### 5 







We will sing joyously over your victory, And in the name of our God we will set up our banners. May the LORD fulfill all your petitions. 















###### 6 







Now I know that the LORD saves His anointed; He will answer him from His holy heaven With the saving strength of His right hand. 















###### 7 







Some _trust_ in chariots and some in horses, But we will remember _and_ trust in the name of the LORD our God. 















###### 8 







They have bowed down and fallen, But we have risen and stood upright. 















###### 9 







O LORD, save [the [^b]king]; May the [^c]King answer us in the day we call. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 20:1 Verses 1-5, 9 is the prayer of intercession voiced by the congregation before David goes into battle. [^b]: Psalm 20:9 I.e. David. [^c]: Psalm 20:9 I.e. Lord.
