---
Aliases: [Psalms 24]
previous: ['Ps 23']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 25']
---
# Psalms 24

***
















###### 1 







The earth [^b]is the Lord's, and the fullness of it, The world, and those who dwell in it. 















###### 2 







For He has founded it upon the seas And established it upon the streams _and_ the rivers. 















###### 3 







Who may ascend onto the [^c]mountain of the LORD? And who may stand in His holy place? 















###### 4 







He who has clean hands and a pure heart, Who has not lifted up his soul to what is false, Nor has sworn [oaths] deceitfully. 















###### 5 







He shall receive a blessing from the LORD, And righteousness from the God of his salvation. 















###### 6 







This is the generation (description) of those who diligently seek Him _and_ require Him as their greatest need, Who seek Your face, even [as did] Jacob. Selah. 















###### 7 







Lift up your heads, O gates, And be lifted up, ancient doors, That the King of glory may come in. 















###### 8 







Who is the King of glory? The LORD strong and mighty, The LORD mighty in battle. 















###### 9 







Lift up your heads, O gates, And lift them up, ancient doors, That the King of glory may come in. 















###### 10 







Who is [He then] this King of glory? The LORD of hosts, He is the King of glory [who rules over all creation with His heavenly armies]. Selah. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 24:1 In the Talmud it is said that the Levites sang a particular psalm for every day of the week, and this was the psalm for the first day. [^b]: Psalm 24:1 The ancient rabbis taught that since the earth and everything it contains belongs to the Lord, it is sacrilege to enjoy anything of the world without first saying a benediction for it. [^c]: Psalm 24:3 I.e. Mount Zion.
