---
Aliases: [Psalms 21]
previous: ['Ps 20']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 22']
---
# Psalms 21

***
















###### 1 







O LORD the king will delight in Your strength, And in Your salvation how greatly will he rejoice! 















###### 2 







You have given him his heart's desire, And You have not withheld the request of his lips. Selah. 















###### 3 







For You meet him with blessings of good things; You set a crown of pure gold on his head. 















###### 4 







He asked life of You, And You gave it to him, Long life forever and evermore. 















###### 5 







His glory is great because of Your victory; Splendor and majesty You bestow upon him. 















###### 6 







For You make him most blessed [and a blessing] forever; You make him joyful with the joy of Your presence. 















###### 7 







For the king [confidently] trusts in the LORD, And through the lovingkindness (faithfulness, goodness) of the Most High he will never be shaken. 















###### 8 







Your hand will reach out _and_ defeat all your enemies; Your right hand will reach those who hate you. 















###### 9 







You will make them as [if in] a blazing oven in the time of your anger; The LORD will swallow them up in His wrath, And the fire will devour them. 















###### 10 







Their offspring You will destroy from the earth, And their descendants from the sons of men. 















###### 11 







For they planned evil against You; They devised a [malevolent] plot And they will not succeed. 















###### 12 







For You will make them turn their backs [in defeat]; You will aim Your bowstring [of divine justice] at their faces. 















###### 13 







Be exalted, LORD, in Your strength; We will sing and praise Your power. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
