---
Aliases: [Psalms 28]
previous: ['Ps 27']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 29']
---
# Psalms 28

***
















###### 1 







To you I call, O LORD, My rock, do not be deaf to me, For if You are silent to me, I will become like those who go down to the pit (grave). 















###### 2 







Hear the voice of my supplication (specific requests, humble entreaties) as I cry to You for help, As I lift up my hands _and_ heart toward Your innermost sanctuary (Holy of Holies). 















###### 3 







Do not drag me away with the wicked And with those who do evil, Who speak peace with their neighbors, While malice _and_ mischief are in their hearts. 















###### 4 







Repay them according to their work and according to the evil of their practices; Repay them according to the deeds of their hands; Repay them what they deserve. 















###### 5 







Because they have no regard for the works of the LORD Nor the deeds of His hands, He will tear them down and not rebuild them. 















###### 6 







Blessed be the LORD, Because He has heard the voice of my supplication. 















###### 7 







The LORD is my strength and my [impenetrable] shield; My heart trusts [with unwavering confidence] in Him, and I am helped; Therefore my heart greatly rejoices, And with my song I shall thank Him _and_ praise Him. 















###### 8 







The LORD is their [unyielding] strength, And He is the fortress of salvation to His anointed. 















###### 9 







Save Your people and bless Your inheritance; Be their shepherd also, and carry them forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
