---
Aliases: [Psalms 23]
previous: ['Ps 22']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 24']
---
# Psalms 23

***
















###### 1 







The LORD is my Shepherd [to feed, to guide and to shield me], I shall not want. 















###### 2 







He lets me lie down in green pastures; He leads me beside the still _and_ quiet waters. 















###### 3 







He refreshes _and_ restores my soul (life); He leads me in the paths of righteousness for His name's sake. 















###### 4 







Even though I walk through the [sunless] [^a]valley of the shadow of death, I fear no evil, for You are with me; Your rod [to protect] and Your staff [to guide], they comfort _and_ console me. 















###### 5 







You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You have anointed _and_ refreshed my head with [^b]oil; My cup overflows. 















###### 6 







Surely goodness and mercy _and_ unfailing love shall follow me all the days of my life, And I shall dwell forever [throughout all my days] in the house _and_ in the presence of the LORD. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 23:4 Or _valley of deep darkness_. [^b]: Psalm 23:5 In ancient times it was customary in hot climates for a host to provide his guest with olive oil to put on his head. The Lord blesses and anoints His believers with the Holy Spirit, whom oil symbolizes, to prepare them for His service.
