---
Aliases: [Psalms 37]
previous: ['Ps 36']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 38']
---
# Psalms 37

***
















###### 1 







[^a]Do not worry because of evildoers, Nor be envious toward wrongdoers; 















###### 2 







For they will wither quickly like the grass, And fade like the green herb. 















###### 3 







Trust [rely on and have confidence] in the LORD and do good; Dwell in the land and feed [securely] on His faithfulness. 















###### 4 







Delight yourself in the LORD, And He will give you the desires _and_ petitions of your heart. 















###### 5 







Commit your way to the LORD; Trust in Him also and He will do it. 















###### 6 







He will make your righteousness [your pursuit of right standing with God] like the light, And your judgment like [the shining of] the noonday [sun]. 















###### 7 







Be still before the LORD; wait patiently for Him _and_ entrust yourself to Him; Do not fret (whine, agonize) because of him who prospers in his way, Because of the man who carries out wicked schemes. 















###### 8 







Cease from anger and abandon wrath; Do not fret; _it leads_ only to evil. 















###### 9 







For those who do evil will be cut off, But those who wait for the LORD, they will inherit the land. 















###### 10 







For yet a little while and the wicked one will be gone [forever]; Though you look carefully where he used to be, he will not be [found]. 















###### 11 







But the humble will [at last] inherit the land And will delight themselves in abundant prosperity _and_ peace. 















###### 12 







The wicked plots against the righteous And gnashes at him with his teeth. 















###### 13 







The Lord laughs at him [the wicked one--the one who oppresses the righteous], For He sees that his day [of defeat] is coming. 















###### 14 







The wicked have drawn the sword and bent their bow To cast down the afflicted and the needy, To slaughter those who are upright in conduct [those with personal integrity and godly character]. 















###### 15 







The sword [of the ungodly] will enter their own heart, And their bow will be broken. 















###### 16 







Better is the little of the righteous [who seek the will of God] Than the abundance (riches) of many wicked (godless). 















###### 17 







For the arms of the wicked will be broken, But the LORD upholds _and_ sustains the righteous [who seek Him]. 















###### 18 







The LORD knows the days of the blameless, And their inheritance will continue forever. 















###### 19 







They will not be [^b]ashamed in the time of evil, And in the days of famine they will have plenty _and_ be satisfied. 















###### 20 







But the wicked (ungodly) will perish, And the enemies of the LORD will be like the [^c]glory of the pastures _and_ like the fat of lambs [that is consumed in smoke], They vanish--like smoke they vanish away. 















###### 21 







The wicked borrows and does not pay back, But the righteous is gracious _and_ kind and gives. 















###### 22 







For those blessed by God will [at last] inherit the land, But those cursed by Him will be cut off. 















###### 23 







The steps of a [good and righteous] man are directed _and_ established by the LORD, And He delights in his way [and blesses his path]. 















###### 24 







When he falls, he will not be hurled down, Because the LORD is the One who holds his hand _and_ sustains him. 















###### 25 







I have been young and now I am old, Yet I have not seen the righteous (those in right standing with God) abandoned Or his descendants pleading for bread. 















###### 26 







All day long he is gracious and lends, And his descendants are a blessing. 















###### 27 







Depart from evil and do good; And you will dwell [securely in the land] forever. 















###### 28 







For the LORD delights in justice And does not abandon His saints (faithful ones); They are preserved forever, But the descendants of the wicked will [in time] be cut off. 















###### 29 







The righteous will inherit the land And live in it forever. 















###### 30 







The mouth of the righteous proclaims wisdom, And his tongue speaks justice _and_ truth. 















###### 31 







The law of his God is in his heart; Not one of his steps will slip. 















###### 32 







The wicked lies in wait for the righteous And seeks to kill him. 















###### 33 







The LORD will not leave him in his hand Or let him be condemned when he is judged. 















###### 34 







Wait for _and_ expect the LORD and keep His way, And He will exalt you to inherit the land; [In the end] when the wicked are cut off, you will see it. 















###### 35 







I have seen a wicked, violent man [with great power] Spreading _and_ flaunting himself like a cedar in its native soil, 















###### 36 







Yet he passed away, and lo, he was no more; I sought him, but he could not be found. 















###### 37 







Mark the blameless man [who is spiritually complete], and behold the upright [who walks in moral integrity]; There is a [good] future for the man of peace [because a life of honor blesses one's descendants]. 















###### 38 







As for transgressors, they will be completely destroyed; The future of the wicked will be cut off. 















###### 39 







But the salvation of the righteous is from the LORD; He is their refuge _and_ stronghold in the time of trouble. 















###### 40 







The LORD helps them and rescues them; He rescues them from the wicked and saves them, Because they take refuge in Him. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 37:1 One of the longer psalms, Ps 37 also has the distinction of having every other verse (sometimes succeeding verses) begin with a letter of the Hebrew in alphabetical order. This technique served as a memory aid. [^b]: Psalm 37:19 I.e. have their expectations in Your goodness be disappointed. [^c]: Psalm 37:20 I.e. flowers.
