---
Aliases: [Psalms 35]
previous: ['Ps 34']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 36']
---
# Psalms 35

***
















###### 1 







Contend, O LORD, with those who contend with me; Fight against those who fight against me. 















###### 2 







Take hold of shield and buckler ([^a]small shield), And stand up for my help. 















###### 3 







Draw also the spear and javelin to meet those who pursue me. Say to my soul, "I am your salvation." 















###### 4 







Let those be ashamed and dishonored who seek my life; Let those be turned back [in defeat] and humiliated who plot evil against me. 















###### 5 







Let them be [blown away] like chaff before the wind [worthless, without substance], With the angel of the LORD driving them on. 















###### 6 







Let their way be dark and slippery, With the angel of the LORD pursuing _and_ harassing them. 















###### 7 







For without cause they hid their net for me; Without cause they dug a pit [of destruction] for my life. 















###### 8 







Let destruction come upon my enemy by surprise; Let the net he hid for me catch him; Into that very destruction let him fall. 















###### 9 







Then my soul shall rejoice in the LORD; It shall rejoice in His salvation. 















###### 10 







All my bones will say, "LORD, who is like You, Who rescues the afflicted from him who is too strong for him [to resist alone], And the afflicted and the needy from him who robs him?" 















###### 11 







Malicious witnesses rise up; They ask me of things that I do not know. 















###### 12 







They repay me evil for good, To the sorrow of my soul. 















###### 13 







But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth (mourning garment); I humbled my soul with fasting, And I prayed with my head bowed on my chest. 















###### 14 







I behaved as if grieving for my friend or my brother; I bowed down in mourning, as one who sorrows for his mother. 















###### 15 







But in my stumbling they rejoiced and gathered together [against me]; The slanderers whom I did not know gathered against me; They slandered _and_ reviled me without ceasing. 















###### 16 







Like godless jesters at a feast, They gnashed at me with their teeth [in malice]. 















###### 17 







LORD, how long will You look on [without action]? Rescue my life from their destructions, My only _life_ from the young lions. 















###### 18 







I will give You thanks in the great congregation; I will praise You among a mighty people. 















###### 19 







Do not let those who are wrongfully my enemies rejoice over me; Nor let those who hate me without cause wink their eye [maliciously]. 















###### 20 







For they do not speak peace, But they devise deceitful words [half-truths and lies] against those who are quiet in the land. 















###### 21 







They open their mouths wide against me; They say, "Aha, aha, our eyes have seen it!" 















###### 22 







You have seen this, O LORD; do not keep silent. O Lord, do not be far from me. 















###### 23 







Wake Yourself up, and arise to my right And to my cause, my God and my Lord. 















###### 24 







Judge me, O LORD my God, according to Your righteousness _and_ justice; And do not let them rejoice over me. 















###### 25 







Do not let them say in their heart, "Aha, that is what we wanted!" Do not let them say, "We have swallowed him up _and_ destroyed him." 















###### 26 







Let those be ashamed and humiliated together who rejoice at my distress; Let those be clothed with shame and dishonor who magnify themselves over me. 















###### 27 







Let them shout for joy and rejoice, who favor my vindication _and_ want what is right for me; Let them say continually, "Let the LORD be magnified, who delights _and_ takes pleasure in the prosperity of His servant." 















###### 28 







And my tongue shall declare Your righteousness (justice), And Your praise all the day long. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 35:2 See note Jer 46:3.
