---
Aliases: [Psalms 30]
previous: ['Ps 29']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 31']
---
# Psalms 30

***
















###### 1 







I will extol _and_ praise You, O LORD, for You have lifted me up, And have not let my enemies rejoice over me. 















###### 2 







O LORD my God, I cried to You for help, and You have healed me. 















###### 3 







O LORD, You have brought my life up from Sheol (the nether world, the place of the dead); You have kept me alive, so that I would not go down to the pit (grave). 















###### 4 







Sing to the LORD, O you His godly ones, And give thanks at the mention of His holy _name_. 















###### 5 







For His anger is but for a moment, [^a]His favor is for a lifetime. Weeping may endure for a night, But a shout of joy comes in the morning. 















###### 6 







As for me, in my prosperity I said, "I shall never be moved." 















###### 7 







By Your favor _and_ grace, O LORD, you have made my mountain stand strong; You hid Your face, and I was horrified. 















###### 8 







I called to You, O LORD, And to the Lord I made supplication (specific request). 















###### 9 







"What profit is there in my blood (death), if I go down to the pit (grave)? Will the dust praise You? Will it declare Your faithfulness [to man]? 















###### 10 







"Hear, O LORD, be gracious _and_ show favor to me; O LORD, be my helper." 















###### 11 







You have turned my mourning into dancing for me; You have taken off my sackcloth and clothed me with joy, 















###### 12 







That my soul may sing praise to You and not be silent. O LORD my God, I will give thanks to You forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 30:5 Or _in His favor is life_.
