---
Aliases: [Psalms 31]
previous: ['Ps 30']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 32']
---
# Psalms 31

***
















###### 1 







In You, O LORD, I have placed my trust _and_ taken refuge; Let me never be [^a]ashamed; In Your righteousness rescue me. 















###### 2 







Incline Your ear to me, deliver me quickly; Be my rock of refuge, And a strong fortress to save me. 















###### 3 







Yes, You are my rock and my fortress; For Your name's sake You will lead me and guide me. 















###### 4 







You will draw me out of the net that they have secretly laid for me, For You are my strength _and_ my stronghold. 















###### 5 







[^b]Into Your hand I commit my spirit; You have redeemed me, O LORD, the God of truth _and_ faithfulness. 















###### 6 







I hate those who pay regard to vain (empty, worthless) idols; But I trust in the LORD [and rely on Him with unwavering confidence]. 















###### 7 







I will rejoice and be glad in Your steadfast love, Because You have seen my affliction; You have taken note of my life's distresses, 















###### 8 







And You have not given me into the hand of the enemy; You have set my feet in a broad place. 















###### 9 







Be gracious _and_ compassionate to me, O LORD, for I am in trouble; My eye is clouded _and_ weakened by grief, my soul and my body also. 















###### 10 







For my life is spent with sorrow And my years with sighing; My strength has failed because of my iniquity, And even my body has wasted away. 















###### 11 







Because of all my enemies I have become a reproach _and_ disgrace, Especially to my neighbors, And an object of dread to my acquaintances; Those who see me on the street run from me. 















###### 12 







I am forgotten like a dead man, out of mind; I am like a broken vessel. 















###### 13 







For I have heard the slander _and_ whispering of many, Terror is on every side; While they schemed together against me, They plotted to take away my life. 















###### 14 







But as for me, I trust [confidently] in You _and_ Your greatness, O LORD; I said, "You are my God." 















###### 15 







My times are in Your hands; Rescue me from the hand of my enemies and from those who pursue _and_ persecute me. 















###### 16 







Make Your face shine upon Your servant; Save me in Your lovingkindness. 















###### 17 







Let me not be put to shame, O LORD, for I call on You; Let the wicked (godless) be put to shame, let them be silent in Sheol (the nether world, the place of the dead). 















###### 18 







Let the lying lips be mute, Which speak insolently _and_ arrogantly against the [consistently] righteous With pride and contempt. 















###### 19 







How great is Your goodness, Which You have stored up for those who [reverently] fear You, Which You have prepared for those who take refuge in You, [^c]Before the sons of man! 















###### 20 







In the secret place of Your presence You hide them from the plots _and_ conspiracies of man; You keep them secretly in a shelter (pavilion) from the strife of tongues. 















###### 21 







Blessed be the LORD, For He has shown His marvelous favor _and_ lovingkindness to me [when I was assailed] in a besieged city. 















###### 22 







As for me, I said in my alarm, "I am cut off from Your eyes." Nevertheless You heard the voice of my supplications (specific requests) When I cried to You [for help]. 















###### 23 







O love the LORD, all you His godly ones! The LORD preserves the faithful [those with moral and spiritual integrity] And fully repays the [self-righteousness of the] arrogant. 















###### 24 







Be strong and let your hearts take courage, All you who wait for _and_ confidently expect the LORD. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 31:1 I.e. have my expectations in Your goodness be disappointed. [^b]: Psalm 31:5 The ancient rabbis made this statement a bedtime prayer. [^c]: Psalm 31:19 I.e. human beings.
