---
Aliases: [Psalms 32]
previous: ['Ps 31']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 33']
---
# Psalms 32

***
















###### 1 







Blessed [fortunate, prosperous, favored by God] is he whose transgression is forgiven, And whose sin is covered. 















###### 2 







Blessed is the man to whom the LORD does not impute wickedness, And in whose spirit there is no deceit. 















###### 3 







When I kept silent _about my sin_, my body wasted away Through my groaning all the day long. 















###### 4 







For day and night Your hand [of displeasure] was heavy upon me; My [^b]energy (vitality, strength) was drained away as with the burning heat of summer. Selah. 















###### 5 







I acknowledged my sin to You, And I did not hide my wickedness; I said, "I will confess [all] my transgressions to the LORD"; And You forgave the guilt of my sin. Selah. 















###### 6 







Therefore, let everyone who is godly pray to You [for forgiveness] in a time when You [are near and] may be found; Surely when the great waters [of trial and distressing times] overflow they will not reach [the spirit in] him. 















###### 7 







You are my hiding place; You, LORD, protect me from trouble; You surround me with songs _and_ shouts of deliverance. Selah. 















###### 8 







I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go; I will counsel you [who are willing to learn] with My eye upon you. 















###### 9 







Do not be like the horse or like the mule which have no understanding, Whose trappings include bridle and rein to hold them in check, _Otherwise_ they will not come near to you. 















###### 10 







Many are the sorrows of the wicked, But he who trusts in _and_ relies on the LORD shall be surrounded with compassion _and_ lovingkindness. 















###### 11 







Be glad in the LORD and rejoice, you righteous [who actively seek right standing with Him]; Shout for joy, all you upright in heart. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 32:1 Meaning uncertain. [^b]: Psalm 32:4 Lit _life juices were turned into the drought of summer_.
