---
Aliases: [Psalms 36]
previous: ['Ps 35']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 37']
---
# Psalms 36

***
















###### 1 







Transgression speaks [like an oracle] to the wicked (godless) [deep] within his heart; There is no fear (dread) of God before his eyes. 















###### 2 







For he flatters _and_ deceives himself in his own eyes _Thinking_ that his sinfulness will not be discovered and hated [by God]. 















###### 3 







The words of his mouth are wicked and deceitful; He has ceased to be wise _and_ to do good. 















###### 4 







He plans wrongdoing on his bed; He sets himself on a path that is not good; He does not reject _or_ despise evil. 















###### 5 







Your lovingkindness _and_ graciousness, O LORD, extend to the skies, Your faithfulness [reaches] to the clouds. 















###### 6 







Your righteousness is like the mountains of God, Your judgments are like the great deep. O LORD, You preserve man and beast. 















###### 7 







How precious is Your lovingkindness, O God! The children of men take refuge in the shadow of Your wings. 















###### 8 







They drink their fill of the abundance of Your house; And You allow them to drink from the river of Your delights. 















###### 9 







For with You is the fountain of life [the fountain of life-giving water]; In Your light we see light. 















###### 10 







O continue Your lovingkindness to those who know You, And Your righteousness (salvation) to the upright in heart. 















###### 11 







Do not let the foot of the proud [person] overtake me, And do not let the hand of the wicked drive me away. 















###### 12 







There those who [are perverse and] do evil have fallen; They have been thrust down and cannot rise. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
