---
Aliases: [Psalms 39]
previous: ['Ps 38']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 40']
---
# Psalms 39

***
















###### 1 







I said, "I will guard my ways That I may not sin with my tongue; I will muzzle my mouth While the wicked are in my presence." 















###### 2 







I was mute and silent [before my enemies], I refrained _even_ from good, And my [^a]distress grew worse. 















###### 3 







My heart was hot within me. While I was musing the fire burned; Then I spoke with my tongue: 















###### 4 







"LORD, let me know my [life's] end And [to appreciate] the extent of my days; Let me know how frail I am [how transient is my stay here]. 















###### 5 







"Behold, You have made my days as [short as] hand widths, And my lifetime is as nothing in Your sight. Surely every man at his best is a mere breath [a wisp of smoke, a vapor that vanishes]! Selah. 















###### 6 







"Surely every man walks around like a shadow [in a charade]; Surely they make an uproar for nothing; Each one builds up _riches_, not knowing who will receive them. 















###### 7 







"And now, Lord, for what do I expectantly wait? My hope [my confident expectation] is in You. 















###### 8 







"Save me from all my transgressions; Do not make me the scorn _and_ reproach of the [self-righteous, arrogant] fool. 















###### 9 







"I am mute, I do not open my mouth, Because it is You who has done it. 















###### 10 







"Remove Your plague from me; I am wasting away because of the conflict _and_ opposition of Your hand. 















###### 11 







"With rebukes You discipline man for sin; You consume like a moth what is precious to him; Surely every man is a mere breath [a wisp of smoke, a vapor that vanishes]. Selah. 















###### 12 







"Hear my prayer, O LORD, and listen to my cry; Do not be silent at my tears; For I am Your temporary guest, A sojourner like all my fathers. 















###### 13 







"O look away from me, that I may smile _and_ again know joy Before I depart and am no more." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 39:2 Lit _pain_.
