---
Aliases: [Psalms 33]
previous: ['Ps 32']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 34']
---
# Psalms 33

***
















###### 1 







Rejoice in the LORD, you righteous ones; Praise is becoming _and_ appropriate for those who are upright [in heart--those with moral integrity and godly character]. 















###### 2 







Give thanks to the LORD with the lyre; Sing praises to Him with the harp of ten strings. 















###### 3 







Sing to Him a new song; Play skillfully [on the strings] with a loud _and_ joyful sound. 















###### 4 







For the word of the LORD is right; And all His work is done in faithfulness. 















###### 5 







He loves righteousness and justice; The earth is full of the lovingkindness of the LORD. 















###### 6 







By the word of the LORD were the heavens made, And all their host by the breath of His mouth. 















###### 7 







He gathers the waters of the sea together as in a wineskin; He puts the deeps in storehouses. 















###### 8 







Let all the earth fear _and_ worship the LORD; Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of Him. 















###### 9 







For He spoke, and it was done; He commanded, and it stood fast. 















###### 10 







The LORD nullifies the counsel of the nations; He makes the thoughts _and_ plans of the people ineffective. 















###### 11 







The counsel of the LORD stands forever, The thoughts _and_ plans of His heart through all generations. 















###### 12 







Blessed [fortunate, prosperous, and favored by God] is the nation whose God is the LORD, The people whom He has chosen as His own inheritance. 















###### 13 







The LORD looks [down] from heaven; He sees all the sons of man; 















###### 14 







From His dwelling place He looks closely Upon all the inhabitants of the earth-- 















###### 15 







He who fashions the hearts of them all, Who considers _and_ understands all that they do. 















###### 16 







The king is not saved by the great size of his army; A warrior is not rescued by his great strength. 















###### 17 







A horse is a false hope for victory; Nor does it deliver anyone by its great strength. 















###### 18 







Behold, the eye of the LORD is upon those who fear Him [and worship Him with awe-inspired reverence and obedience], On those who hope [confidently] in His compassion _and_ lovingkindness, 















###### 19 







To rescue their lives from death And keep them alive in famine. 















###### 20 







We wait [expectantly] for the LORD; He is our help and our shield. 















###### 21 







For in Him our heart rejoices, Because we trust [lean on, rely on, and are confident] in His holy name. 















###### 22 







Let Your [steadfast] lovingkindness, O LORD, be upon us, In proportion as we have [^a]hoped in You. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 33:22 I.e. placed our confidence.
