---
Aliases: [Psalms 34]
previous: ['Ps 33']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 35']
---
# Psalms 34

***
















###### 1 







I will bless the LORD at all times; His praise shall continually be in my mouth. 















###### 2 







My soul makes its boast in the LORD; The humble _and_ downtrodden will hear it and rejoice. 















###### 3 







O [^a]magnify the LORD with me, And let us lift up His name together. 















###### 4 







I sought the LORD [on the authority of His word], and He answered me, And delivered me from all my fears. 















###### 5 







They looked to Him and were radiant; Their faces will never blush in shame _or_ confusion. 















###### 6 







This poor man cried, and the LORD heard him And saved him from all his troubles. 















###### 7 







The [^b]angel of the LORD encamps around those who fear Him [with awe-inspired reverence and worship Him with obedience], And He rescues [each of] them. 















###### 8 







O taste and see that the LORD [our God] is good; How blessed [fortunate, prosperous, and favored by God] is the man who takes refuge in Him. 















###### 9 







O [reverently] fear the LORD, you His saints (believers, holy ones); For to those who fear Him there is no want. 















###### 10 







The young lions lack [food] and grow hungry, But they who seek the LORD will not lack any good thing. 















###### 11 







Come, you children, listen to me; I will teach you to fear the LORD [with awe-inspired reverence and worship Him with obedience]. 















###### 12 







Who is the man who desires life And loves many days, that he may see good? 















###### 13 







Keep your tongue from evil And your lips from speaking deceit. 















###### 14 







Turn away from evil and do good; Seek peace and pursue it. 















###### 15 







The eyes of the LORD are toward the righteous [those with moral courage and spiritual integrity] And His ears are open to their cry. 















###### 16 







The face of the LORD is against those who do evil, To cut off the memory of them from the earth. 















###### 17 







When _the righteous_ cry [for help], the LORD hears And rescues them from all their distress _and_ troubles. 















###### 18 







The LORD is near to the heartbroken And He saves those who are crushed in spirit (contrite in heart, truly sorry for their sin). 















###### 19 







Many hardships _and_ perplexing circumstances confront the righteous, But the LORD rescues him from them all. 















###### 20 







He keeps all his bones; Not one of them is broken. 















###### 21 







Evil will cause the death of the wicked, And those who hate the righteous will be held guilty _and_ will be condemned. 















###### 22 







The LORD redeems the soul of His servants, And none of those who take refuge in Him will be condemned. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 34:3 The ancient rabbis applied this verse specifically to the saying of grace after a meal and instituted the practice of _zimmum_ (“invitation”) as a religious duty for three or more men who had eaten together. They were to invite one another to say the blessing. One then said the blessing and the others were required to say “Amen” in voices no louder than that of the speaker of the blessing, based on the word _together_. It was also taught that all the participants in the blessing receive a reward from God. [^b]: Psalm 34:7 See note Gen 16:7.
