---
Aliases: [Psalms 38]
previous: ['Ps 37']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 39']
---
# Psalms 38

***
















###### 1 







O LORD, do not rebuke me in Your wrath, Nor discipline me in Your burning anger. 















###### 2 







For Your arrows have sunk into me _and_ penetrate deeply, And Your hand has pressed down on me _and_ greatly disciplined me. 















###### 3 







There is no soundness in my flesh because of Your indignation; There is no health in my bones because of my sin. 















###### 4 







For my iniquities have gone over my head [like the waves of a flood]; As a heavy burden they weigh too much for me. 















###### 5 







My wounds are loathsome and foul Because of my foolishness. 















###### 6 







I am bent over and greatly bowed down; I go about mourning all day long. 















###### 7 







For my sides are filled with burning, And there is no health in my flesh. 















###### 8 







I am numb and greatly bruised [deadly cold and completely worn out]; I groan because of the disquiet _and_ moaning of my heart. 















###### 9 







Lord, all my desire is before You; And my sighing is not hidden from You. 















###### 10 







My heart throbs violently, my strength fails me; And as for the light of my eyes, even that has also gone from me. 















###### 11 







My loved ones and my friends stand aloof from my plague; And my neighbors stand far away. 















###### 12 







Those who seek my life lay snares _for me_, And those who seek to injure me threaten mischievous things _and_ destruction; They devise treachery all the day long. 















###### 13 







But I, like a deaf man, do not hear; I am like a mute man who does not open his mouth. 















###### 14 







Yes, I am like a man who does not hear, In whose mouth are no arguments. 















###### 15 







For in You, O LORD, I hope; You will answer, O Lord my God. 















###### 16 







For I pray, "May they not rejoice over me, Who, when my foot slips, would boast against me." 















###### 17 







For I am ready to fall; My sorrow is continually before me. 















###### 18 







For I do confess my guilt _and_ iniquity; I am filled with anxiety because of my sin. 















###### 19 







But my [numerous] enemies are vigorous and strong, And those who hate me without cause are many. 















###### 20 







They repay evil for good, they attack _and_ try to kill me, Because I follow what is good. 















###### 21 







Do not abandon me, O LORD; O my God, do not be far from me. 















###### 22 







Make haste to help me, O Lord, my Salvation. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
