---
Aliases: [Psalms 45]
previous: ['Ps 44']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 46']
---
# Psalms 45

***
















###### 1 







[^a]My heart overflows with a good theme; I address my psalm to the King. My tongue is like the pen of a skillful writer. 















###### 2 







You are fairer than the sons of men; Graciousness is poured upon Your lips; Therefore God has blessed You forever. 















###### 3 







Strap Your sword on _Your_ thigh, O mighty One, In Your splendor and Your majesty! 















###### 4 







And in Your majesty ride on triumphantly For the cause of truth and humility and righteousness; Let Your right hand guide You to awesome things. 















###### 5 







Your arrows are sharp; The peoples (nations) fall under You; _Your arrows_ pierce the hearts of the King's enemies. 















###### 6 







[^b]Your throne, O God, is forever and ever; The scepter of uprightness is the scepter of Your kingdom. 















###### 7 







You have loved righteousness (virtue, morality, justice) and hated wickedness; Therefore God, your God, has anointed You Above Your companions with the oil of jubilation. 















###### 8 







All Your garments are _fragrant with_ myrrh, aloes _and_ cassia; From ivory palaces stringed instruments have made You glad. 















###### 9 







Kings' daughters are among Your noble ladies; At Your right hand stands the queen in gold from Ophir. 















###### 10 







Hear, O daughter, consider and incline your ear [to my instruction]: Forget your people and your father's house; 















###### 11 







Then the King will desire your beauty; Because He is your Lord, bow down _and_ honor Him. 















###### 12 







The daughter of Tyre will come with a gift; The rich among the people will seek your favor. 















###### 13 







Glorious is the King's daughter within [the palace]; Her robe is interwoven with gold. 















###### 14 







She will be brought to the King in embroidered garments; The virgins, her companions who follow her, Will be brought to You. 















###### 15 







With gladness and rejoicing will they be led; They will enter into the King's palace. 















###### 16 







In place of your fathers will be [^c]your sons; You shall make princes in all the land. 















###### 17 







I will make Your name to be remembered in all generations; Therefore the peoples will praise _and_ give You thanks forever and ever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 45:1 Jesus spoke of what was written of Him “in the Psalms” (see Luke 24:44). This is one such Messianic psalm; however, the capitalization indicating the deity is provided with the understanding that the chapter is written against the background of an ordinary royal wedding with anonymous participants. The New Testament reference to this psalm is in Heb 1:8, 9, where vv 6, 7 is quoted and applied to Christ. The preceding verses could also be applied to Christ, as well as most of the following verses referring to the King. However, v 16 can only apply to a mortal king (see note there). [^b]: Psalm 45:6 This verse has mystified many commentators since God is distinguished from the King in vv 2 and 7, and various translations have been proposed to make the Hebrew rendered “O God” something other than a reference to the deity of the King. But the writer of Hebrews clearly understood it this way. [^c]: Psalm 45:16 Unlike the other references to the King, this verse cannot be applied prophetically to Christ because He had no children. But it is not unusual for a prophecy to have more than one fulfillment (typically in the near future of the prophecy and another in the distant future), and by analogy there is no reason why this psalm cannot refer both to an ordinary king and to the future Messianic King.
