---
Aliases: [Psalms 42]
previous: ['Ps 41']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 43']
---
# Psalms 42

***
















###### 1 







As the deer pants [longingly] for the water brooks, So my [^a]soul pants [longingly] for You, O God. 















###### 2 







My soul (my life, my inner self) thirsts for God, for the living God. When will I come and see the face of God? 















###### 3 







My tears have been my food day and night, While they say to me all day long, "Where is your God?" 















###### 4 







These things I [vividly] remember as I pour out my soul; How I used to go along before the great crowd of people and lead them in procession to the house of God [like a choirmaster before his singers, timing the steps to the music and the chant of the song], With the voice of joy and thanksgiving, a great crowd keeping a festival. 















###### 5 







Why are you in despair, O my soul? And why have you become restless _and_ disturbed within me? Hope in God _and_ wait expectantly for Him, for I shall again praise Him For the help of His presence. 















###### 6 







O my God, my soul is in despair within me [the burden more than I can bear]; Therefore I will [fervently] remember You from the land of the Jordan And the peaks of [Mount] Hermon, from Mount Mizar. 















###### 7 







Deep calls to deep at the [thundering] sound of Your waterfalls; All Your breakers and Your waves have rolled over me. 















###### 8 







Yet the LORD will command His lovingkindness in the daytime, And in the night His song will be with me, A prayer to the God of my life. 















###### 9 







I will say to God my rock, "Why have You forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?" 















###### 10 







As a crushing of my bones [with a sword], my adversaries taunt me, While they say continually to me, "Where is your God?" 















###### 11 







Why are you in despair, O my soul? Why have you become restless _and_ disquieted within me? Hope in God _and_ wait expectantly for Him, for I shall yet praise Him, The [^b]help of my countenance and my God. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 42:1 The Hebrew word translated “soul” in this psalm and elsewhere in the book of Psalms is _nephesh_. This word usually refers to a person’s “life” or “self,” but can also mean “throat,” as perhaps in vv 1, 2. [^b]: Psalm 42:11 Or _saving acts of_.
