---
Aliases: [Psalms 49]
previous: ['Ps 48']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 50']
---
# Psalms 49

***
















###### 1 







Hear this, all peoples; Listen carefully, all inhabitants of the world, 















###### 2 







Both low and high, Rich and poor together: 















###### 3 







My mouth will speak wisdom, And the meditation of my heart will be understanding. 















###### 4 







I will incline my ear _and_ consent to a proverb; On the lyre I will unfold my riddle. 















###### 5 







Why should I fear in the days of evil, When the wickedness of those who would betray me surrounds me [on every side], 















###### 6 







Even those who trust in _and_ rely on their wealth And boast of the abundance of their riches? 















###### 7 







None of them can by any means redeem [either himself or] his brother, Nor give to God a ransom for him-- 















###### 8 







For the ransom of his soul is too costly, And he should cease _trying_ forever-- 















###### 9 







So that he should live on eternally, That he should never see the pit (grave) _and_ undergo decay. 















###### 10 







For he sees _that even_ wise men die; The fool and the stupid alike perish And leave their wealth to others. 















###### 11 







Their inward thought is that their houses will continue forever, And their dwelling places to all generations; They have named their lands after their own names [ignoring God]. 















###### 12 







But man, with all his [self] honor _and_ pomp, will not endure; He is like the beasts that perish. 















###### 13 







This is the fate of those who are foolishly confident, And of those after them who approve [and are influenced by] their words. Selah. 















###### 14 







Like sheep they are appointed for Sheol (the nether world, the place of the dead); Death will be their shepherd; And the upright shall rule over them in the morning, And their form _and_ beauty shall [^a]be for Sheol to consume, So that they have no dwelling [on earth]. 















###### 15 







But God will redeem my life from the power of Sheol, For He will receive me. Selah. 















###### 16 







Be not afraid when [an ungodly] man becomes rich, When the wealth _and_ glory of his house are increased; 















###### 17 







For when he dies he will carry nothing away; His glory will not descend after him. 















###### 18 







Though while he lives he counts himself happy _and_ prosperous-- And though people praise you when you do well for yourself-- 















###### 19 







He shall go to the generation of his fathers; They shall never again see the light. 















###### 20 







A man [who is held] in honor, Yet who lacks [spiritual] understanding _and_ a teachable heart, is like the beasts that perish. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 49:14 The ancient rabbis read this as “will wear out Sheol,” which also matches the Hebrew, and interpreted it as referring to unending punishment, i.e. punishment even outlasting Gehinnom (hell).
