---
Aliases: [Psalms 48]
previous: ['Ps 47']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 49']
---
# Psalms 48

***
















###### 1 







Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised, In the city of our God, His holy mountain. 















###### 2 







Fair _and_ beautiful in elevation, the joy of all the earth, Is Mount Zion [the City of David] in the far north, The city of the great King. 















###### 3 







God, in her palaces, Has made Himself known as a stronghold. 















###### 4 







For, lo, the kings assembled themselves, They [came and] passed by together. 















###### 5 







They saw it, then they were amazed; They were stricken with terror, they fled in alarm. 















###### 6 







Panic seized them there, And pain, as that of a woman in childbirth. 















###### 7 







With the east wind You shattered the ships of Tarshish. 















###### 8 







As we have heard, so have we seen In the city of the LORD of hosts, in the city of our God: God will establish her forever. Selah. 















###### 9 







We have thought of Your lovingkindness, O God, In the midst of Your temple. 















###### 10 







As is Your name, O God, So is Your praise to the ends of the earth; Your right hand is full of righteousness (rightness, justice). 















###### 11 







Let Mount Zion be glad, Let the daughters of Judah rejoice Because of Your [righteous] judgments. 















###### 12 







Walk about Zion, go all around her; Count her towers, 















###### 13 







Consider her ramparts, Go through her palaces, That you may tell the next generation [about her glory]. 















###### 14 







For this is God, Our God forever and ever; He will be our guide even until death. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
