---
Aliases: [Psalms 46]
previous: ['Ps 45']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 47']
---
# Psalms 46

***
















###### 1 







God is our refuge and strength [mighty and impenetrable], A very present _and_ well-proved help in trouble. 















###### 2 







Therefore we will not fear, though the earth should change And though the mountains be shaken _and_ slip into the heart of the seas, 















###### 3 







Though its waters roar and foam, Though the mountains tremble at its roaring. Selah. 















###### 4 







There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God, The holy dwelling places of the Most High. 















###### 5 







God is in the midst of her [His city], she will not be moved; God will help her when the morning dawns. 















###### 6 







The nations made an uproar, the kingdoms tottered _and_ were moved; He raised His voice, the earth melted. 















###### 7 







The LORD of hosts is with us; The God of Jacob is our stronghold [our refuge, our high tower]. Selah. 















###### 8 







Come, behold the works of the LORD, Who has brought desolations _and_ wonders on the earth. 















###### 9 







He makes wars to cease to the end of the earth; He breaks the bow into pieces and snaps the spear in two; He burns the chariots with fire. 















###### 10 







"Be still and know (recognize, understand) that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations! I will be exalted in the earth." 















###### 11 







The LORD of hosts is with us; The God of Jacob is our stronghold [our refuge, our high tower]. Selah. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
