---
Aliases: [Psalms 41]
previous: ['Ps 40']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 42']
---
# Psalms 41

***
















###### 1 







Blessed [by God's grace and compassion] is he who considers the helpless; The LORD will save him in the day of trouble. 















###### 2 







The LORD will protect him and keep him alive; And he will be called blessed in the land; You do not hand him over to the desire of his enemies. 















###### 3 







The LORD will sustain _and_ strengthen him on his sickbed; In his illness, You will restore him to health. 















###### 4 







As for me, I said, "O LORD, be gracious to me; Heal my soul, for I have sinned against You." 















###### 5 







My enemies speak evil of me, _saying_, "When will he die and his name perish?" 















###### 6 







And when one comes to see me, he speaks empty words, While his heart gathers malicious gossip [against me]; When he goes away, he tells it [everywhere]. 















###### 7 







All who hate me whisper together about me; Against me they devise my hurt [imagining the worst for me], _saying_, 















###### 8 







"A wicked thing is poured out upon him _and_ holds him; And when he lies down, he will not rise up again." 















###### 9 







Even my own close friend in whom I trusted, Who ate my bread, Has lifted up his heel against me [betraying me]. 















###### 10 







But You, O LORD, be gracious to me and [^a]restore me [to health], So that I may repay them. 















###### 11 







By this I know that You favor _and_ delight in me, Because my enemy does not shout in triumph over me. 















###### 12 







As for me, You uphold me in my integrity, And You set me in Your presence forever. 















###### 13 







Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, From everlasting to everlasting [from this age to the next, and forever]. Amen and Amen (so be it). ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 41:10 Lit _raise me up_.
