---
Aliases: [Psalms 40]
previous: ['Ps 39']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 41']
---
# Psalms 40

***
















###### 1 







I waited patiently _and_ expectantly for the LORD; And He inclined to me and heard my cry. 















###### 2 







He brought me up out of a horrible pit [of tumult and of destruction], out of the miry clay, And He set my feet upon a rock, steadying my footsteps _and_ establishing my path. 















###### 3 







He put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God; Many will see and fear [with great reverence] And will trust confidently in the LORD. 















###### 4 







Blessed [fortunate, prosperous, and favored by God] is the man who makes the LORD his trust, And does not regard the proud nor those who lapse into lies. 















###### 5 







Many, O LORD my God, are the wonderful works which You have done, And Your thoughts toward us; There is none to compare with You. If I would declare and speak of _your wonders_, They would be too many to count. 















###### 6 







Sacrifice and meal offering You do not desire, _nor_ do You delight in them; You have opened my ears _and_ given me the capacity to hear [and obey Your word]; Burnt offerings and sin offerings You do not require. 















###### 7 







Then I said, "Behold, I come [to the throne]; In the scroll of the book it is written of me. 















###### 8 







"I delight to do Your will, O my God; Your law is within my heart." 















###### 9 







I have proclaimed good news of righteousness [and the joy that comes from obedience to You] in the great assembly; Behold, I will not restrain my lips [from proclaiming Your righteousness], As You know, O LORD. 















###### 10 







I have not concealed Your righteousness within my heart; I have proclaimed Your faithfulness and Your salvation. I have not concealed Your lovingkindness and Your truth from the great assembly. 















###### 11 







Do not withhold Your compassion _and_ tender mercy from me, O LORD; Your lovingkindness and Your truth will continually preserve me. 















###### 12 







For innumerable evils have encompassed me; My sins have overtaken me, so that I am not able to see. They are more numerous than the hairs of my head, And my heart has failed me. 















###### 13 







Be pleased, O LORD, to save me; O LORD, make haste to help me. 















###### 14 







Let those be ashamed and humiliated together Who seek my life to destroy it; Let those be turned back [in defeat] and dishonored Who delight in my hurt. 















###### 15 







Let those be appalled _and_ desolate because of their shame Who say to me, "Aha, aha [rejoicing in my misfortune]!" 















###### 16 







Let all who seek You rejoice and be glad in You; Let those who love Your salvation say continually, "The LORD be magnified!" 















###### 17 







Even though I am afflicted and needy, Still the Lord takes thought _and_ is mindful of me. You are my help and my rescuer. O my God, do not delay. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
