---
Aliases: [Psalms 47]
previous: ['Ps 46']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 48']
---
# Psalms 47

***
















###### 1 







O clap your hands, all you people; Shout to God with the voice of triumph _and_ songs of joy. 















###### 2 







For the LORD Most High is to be feared [and worshiped with awe-inspired reverence and obedience]; He is a great King over all the earth. 















###### 3 







He subdues peoples under us And nations under our feet. 















###### 4 







He chooses our inheritance for us, The glory _and_ excellence of Jacob whom He loves. Selah. 















###### 5 







God has ascended amid shouting, The LORD with the sound of a trumpet. 















###### 6 







Sing praises to God, sing praises; Sing praises to our King, sing praises. 















###### 7 







For God is the King of all the earth; Sing praises in a skillful psalm _and_ with understanding. 















###### 8 







God reigns over the nations; God sits on His holy throne. 















###### 9 







The princes of the people have gathered together as the people of the God of Abraham, For the shields of the earth belong to God; He is highly exalted. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
