---
Aliases: [Psalms 50]
previous: ['Ps 49']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 51']
---
# Psalms 50

***
















###### 1 







The mighty One, God, the LORD, has spoken, And summoned the earth from the rising of the sun to its setting [from east to west]. 















###### 2 







Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God has shone forth. 















###### 3 







May our God come and not keep silent; Fire devours before Him, And around Him a mighty tempest rages. 















###### 4 







He summons the heavens above, And the earth, to judge His people: 















###### 5 







"Gather My godly ones to Me, Those who have made a covenant with Me by sacrifice." 















###### 6 







And the heavens declare His righteousness, For God Himself is judge. Selah. 















###### 7 







"Hear, O My people, and I will speak; O Israel, I will testify against you: I am God, your God. 















###### 8 







"I do not reprove you for your sacrifices; Your burnt offerings are continually before Me. 















###### 9 







"I will accept no young bull from your house Nor male goat from your folds. 















###### 10 







"For every beast of the forest is Mine, And the cattle on a thousand hills. 















###### 11 







"I know every bird of the mountains, And everything that moves in the field is [^b]Mine. 















###### 12 







"If I were hungry, I would not tell you, For the world and all it contains are Mine. 















###### 13 







"Shall I eat the flesh of bulls Or drink the blood of male goats? 















###### 14 







"Offer to God the sacrifice of thanksgiving And pay your vows to the Most High; 















###### 15 







Call on Me in the day of trouble; I will rescue you, and you shall honor _and_ glorify Me." 















###### 16 







But to the wicked God says: "What right have you to recite My statutes Or to take My covenant on your lips? 















###### 17 







"For you hate instruction _and_ discipline And cast My words behind you [discarding them]. 















###### 18 







"When you see a thief, you are pleased with him _and_ condone his behavior, And you associate with adulterers. 















###### 19 







"You give your mouth to evil And your tongue frames deceit. 















###### 20 







"You sit and speak against your brother; You slander your own mother's son. 















###### 21 







"These things you have done and I kept silent; You thought that I was just like you. Now I will reprimand _and_ denounce you and state _the case_ in order before your eyes. 















###### 22 







"Now consider this, you who forget God, Or I will tear you in pieces, and there will be no one to rescue [you]. 















###### 23 







"He who offers a sacrifice of praise _and_ thanksgiving honors Me; And to him who orders his way rightly [who follows the way that I show him], I shall show the salvation of God." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 50:1 Asaph was a Levite and one of the leaders of David’s choir. He was the head of one of the three families permanently in charge of the temple music. His family formed a guild that bore his name and is frequently mentioned (2 Chr 20:14; 29:13, 30). Twelve psalms (50; 73-83) are attributed in the titles to the family of Asaph. A hundred and twenty-eight of Asaph’s family members, all singers, came back from Babylon and took part when the foundations of Zerubbabel’s temple were laid (Ezra 2:41; 3:10). [^b]: Psalm 50:11 Or _in my mind_; lit _with Me_.
