---
Aliases: [Psalms 52]
previous: ['Ps 51']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 53']
---
# Psalms 52

***
















###### 1 







Why do you boast of evil, O mighty man? The lovingkindness of God _endures_ all day long. 















###### 2 







Your tongue devises destruction, Like a sharp razor, working deceitfully. 















###### 3 







You love evil more than good, And falsehood more than speaking what is right. Selah. 















###### 4 







You love all words that devour, O deceitful tongue. 















###### 5 







But God will break you down forever; He will take you away and tear you away from your tent, And uproot you from the land of the living. Selah. 















###### 6 







The righteous will see it and fear, And will [scoffingly] laugh, _saying_, 















###### 7 







"Look, [this is] the man who would not make God his strength [his stronghold and fortress], But trusted in the abundance of his riches, Taking refuge in his wealth." 















###### 8 







But as for me, I am like a green olive tree in the house of God; I trust [confidently] in the lovingkindness of God forever and ever. 















###### 9 







I will thank You forever, because You have done it, [You have rescued me and kept me safe]. I will wait on Your name, for it is good, in the presence of Your godly ones. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
