---
Aliases: [Psalms 57]
previous: ['Ps 56']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 58']
---
# Psalms 57

***
















###### 1 







Be gracious to me, O God, be gracious _and_ merciful to me, For my soul finds shelter _and_ safety in You, And in the shadow of Your wings I will take refuge _and_ be confidently secure Until destruction passes by. 















###### 2 







I will cry to God Most High, Who accomplishes _all things_ on my behalf [for He completes my purpose in His plan]. 















###### 3 







He will send from heaven and save me; He calls to account him who tramples me down. Selah. God will send out His lovingkindness and His truth. 















###### 4 







My life is among lions; I must lie among those who breathe out fire-- The sons of men whose teeth are spears and arrows, And their tongue a sharp sword. 















###### 5 







Be exalted above the heavens, O God; Let Your glory _and_ majesty be over all the earth. 















###### 6 







They [^a]set a net for my steps; My very life was bowed down. They dug a pit before me; Into the midst of it they themselves have fallen. Selah. 















###### 7 







My heart is steadfast, O God, my heart is steadfast _and_ confident! I will sing, yes, I will sing praises [to You]! 















###### 8 







Awake, my glory! Awake, harp and lyre! I will awaken the dawn. 















###### 9 







I will praise _and_ give thanks to You, O Lord, among the people; I will sing praises to You among the nations. 















###### 10 







For Your faithfulness _and_ lovingkindness are great, reaching to the heavens, And Your truth to the clouds. 















###### 11 







Be exalted above the heavens, O God; Let Your glory _and_ majesty be over all the earth. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 57:6 Or _spread_.
