---
Aliases: [Psalms 55]
previous: ['Ps 54']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 56']
---
# Psalms 55

***
















###### 1 







Listen to my prayer, O God, And do not hide Yourself from my plea. 















###### 2 







Listen to me and answer me; I am restless _and_ distraught in my complaint and distracted 















###### 3 







Because of the voice of the enemy, Because of the pressure of the wicked; For they bring down trouble on me, And in anger they persecute me. 















###### 4 







My heart is in anguish within me, And the terrors of death have fallen upon me. 















###### 5 







Fear and trembling have come upon me; Horror has overwhelmed me. 















###### 6 







And I say, "Oh, that I had wings like a dove! I would fly away and be at rest. 















###### 7 







"I would wander far away, I would lodge in the [peace of the] wilderness. Selah. 















###### 8 







"I would hurry to my refuge [my tranquil shelter far away] From the stormy wind _and_ from the tempest." 















###### 9 







[^a]Confuse [my enemies], O Lord, divide their tongues [destroying their schemes], For I have seen violence and strife in the city. 















###### 10 







Day and night they go around her walls; Wickedness and mischief are in her midst. 















###### 11 







Destruction is within her; Oppression and deceit do not depart from her streets _and_ market places. 















###### 12 







For it is not an enemy who taunts me-- Then I could bear it; Nor is it one who has hated me who insolently exalts himself against me-- Then I could hide from him. 















###### 13 







But it is you, a man my equal _and_ my counsel, My companion and my familiar friend; 















###### 14 







We who had sweet [^b]fellowship together, Who walked to the house of God in company. 















###### 15 







Let death come deceitfully upon them; Let them go down alive to Sheol (the nether world, the place of the dead), For evil [of every kind] is in their dwelling _and_ in their hearts, in their midst. 















###### 16 







As for me, I shall call upon God, And the LORD will save me. 















###### 17 







Evening and morning and at noon I will complain and murmur, And He will hear my voice. 















###### 18 







He has redeemed my life in peace from the battle that was against me, For there were many against me. 















###### 19 







God will hear and humble them, Even He who [^c]sits enthroned from old-- Selah. Because in them there has been no change [of heart], And they do not fear God [at all]. 















###### 20 







He [my companion] has put out his hands against those who were at peace with him; He has [^d]broken his covenant [of friendship and loyalty]. 















###### 21 







The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, But his heart was hostile; His words were softer than oil, Yet they were drawn swords. 















###### 22 







Cast your burden on the LORD [release it] and He will sustain _and_ uphold you; He will never allow the righteous to be shaken (slip, fall, fail). 















###### 23 







But You, O God, will bring down the wicked to the pit of destruction; Men of blood and treachery will not live out half their days. But I will [boldly and unwaveringly] trust in You. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 55:9 Lit _swallow up_. [^b]: Psalm 55:14 Lit _counsel_; or _intimacy_. [^c]: Psalm 55:19 Or _abides_. [^d]: Psalm 55:20 Lit _profaned_.
