---
Aliases: [Psalms 53]
previous: ['Ps 52']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 54']
---
# Psalms 53

***
















###### 1 







The [empty-headed] fool has said in his heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt _and_ evil, and have committed repulsive injustice; There is no one who does good. 















###### 2 







God has looked down from heaven upon the children of men To see if there is anyone who understands, Who seeks after God [who requires Him, who longs for Him as essential to life]. 















###### 3 







Every one of them has turned aside _and_ fallen away; Together they have become filthy _and_ corrupt; There is no one who does good, no, not even one. 















###### 4 







Have workers of wickedness no knowledge _or_ no understanding? They eat up My people _as though_ they ate bread And have not called upon God. 















###### 5 







There they were, in great terror _and_ dread, where there had been no terror _or_ dread; For God scattered the bones of him who besieged you; You have put them to shame, because God has rejected them. 















###### 6 







Oh, that the salvation of Israel would come out of Zion! When God restores [the fortunes of] His people, Let Jacob rejoice, let Israel be glad. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
