---
Aliases: [Psalms 58]
previous: ['Ps 57']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 59']
---
# Psalms 58

***
















###### 1 







Do you indeed speak righteousness, O gods (heavenly beings)? Do you judge fairly, O sons of men? 















###### 2 







No, in your heart you devise wrongdoing; On earth you deal out the violence of your hands. 















###### 3 







The wicked are estranged from the womb; These go astray from birth, speaking lies [even twisted partial truths]. 















###### 4 







Their poison is like the venom of a serpent; They are like the deaf horned viper that stops up its ear, 















###### 5 







So that it does not listen to the voice of charmers, Or of the skillful enchanter casting [cunning] spells. 















###### 6 







O God, break their teeth in their mouth; Break out the fangs of the young lions, O LORD. 















###### 7 







Let them flow away like water that runs off; When he aims his arrows, let them be as headless shafts. 















###### 8 







_Let them be_ as a snail which melts away (secretes slime) as it goes along, Like the miscarriage of a woman which never sees the sun. 















###### 9 







Before your cooking pots can feel the _fire of_ thorns [burning under them as fuel], He will sweep them away with a whirlwind, the green and the burning ones alike. 















###### 10 







The [unyieldingly] righteous will rejoice when he sees the vengeance [of God]; He will wash his feet in the blood of the wicked. 















###### 11 







Men will say, "Surely there is a reward for the righteous; Surely there is a God who judges on the earth." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
