---
Aliases: [Psalms 59]
previous: ['Ps 58']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 60']
---
# Psalms 59

***
















###### 1 







Deliver me from my enemies, O my God; Set me _securely_ on an inaccessibly high place away from those who rise up against me. 















###### 2 







Deliver me from those who practice wrongdoing, And save me from bloodthirsty men. 















###### 3 







Look! They lie in wait for my life; Fierce _and_ powerful men [are uniting together to] launch an attack against me, Not for my wrongdoing nor for any sin of mine, O LORD. 















###### 4 







They run and set themselves against me though there is no guilt in me; Stir Yourself to meet _and_ help me, and see [what they are doing]! 















###### 5 







You, O LORD God of hosts, the God of Israel, Arise to punish all the nations; Spare no one _and_ do not be merciful to any who treacherously plot evil. Selah. 















###### 6 







They return at evening, they howl _and_ snarl like dogs, And go [prowling] around the city. 















###### 7 







Look how they belch out [insults] with their mouths; Swords [of sarcasm, ridicule, slander, and lies] are in their lips, For _they say_, "Who hears us?" 















###### 8 







But You, O LORD, will laugh at them [in scorn]; You scoff at _and_ deride all the nations. 















###### 9 







O [God] my strength, I will watch for You; For God is my stronghold [my refuge, my protector, my high tower]. 















###### 10 







My God in His [steadfast] lovingkindness will meet me; God will let me look _triumphantly_ on my enemies [who lie in wait for me]. 















###### 11 







Do not kill them, or my people will forget; Scatter them _and_ make them wander [endlessly] back and forth by Your power, and bring them down, O Lord our shield! 















###### 12 







For the sin of their mouths and the words of their lips, Let them even be trapped in their pride, And on account of the curses and lies which they tell. 















###### 13 







Destroy _them_ in wrath, destroy _them_ so that they may be no more; Let them know that God rules over Jacob (Israel) To the ends of the earth. Selah. 















###### 14 







They return at evening, they howl _and_ snarl like dogs, And go [prowling] around the city. 















###### 15 







They wander around for food [to devour] And growl all night if they are not satisfied. 















###### 16 







But as for me, I will sing of Your mighty strength _and_ power; Yes, I will sing joyfully of Your lovingkindness in the morning; For You have been my stronghold And a refuge in the day of my distress. 















###### 17 







To You, O [God] my strength, I will sing praises; For God is my stronghold [my refuge, my protector, my high tower], the God who shows me [steadfast] lovingkindness. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
