---
Aliases: [Psalms 51]
previous: ['Ps 50']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 52']
---
# Psalms 51

***
















###### 1 







Have mercy on me, O God, according to Your lovingkindness; According to the greatness of Your compassion blot out my transgressions. 















###### 2 







Wash me thoroughly from my wickedness _and_ guilt And cleanse me from my sin. 















###### 3 







For I am conscious of my transgressions _and_ I acknowledge them; My sin is always before me. 















###### 4 







Against You, You only, have I sinned And done that which is evil in Your sight, So that You are justified when You speak [Your sentence] And faultless in Your judgment. 















###### 5 







I was brought forth in [a state of] wickedness; In sin my mother conceived me [and from my beginning I, too, was sinful]. 















###### 6 







Behold, You desire truth in the innermost being, And in the hidden part [of my heart] You will make me know wisdom. 















###### 7 







Purify me with [^a]hyssop, and I will be clean; Wash me, and I will be whiter than snow. 















###### 8 







Make me hear joy and gladness _and_ be satisfied; Let the bones which You have broken rejoice. 















###### 9 







Hide Your face from my sins And blot out all my iniquities. 















###### 10 







Create in me a clean heart, O God, And renew a right _and_ steadfast spirit within me. 















###### 11 







Do not cast me away from Your presence And do not take Your Holy Spirit from me. 















###### 12 







Restore to me the joy of Your salvation And sustain me with a willing spirit. 















###### 13 







Then I will teach transgressors Your ways, And sinners shall be converted _and_ return to You. 















###### 14 







Rescue me from bloodguiltiness, O God, the God of my salvation; Then my tongue will sing joyfully of Your righteousness _and_ Your justice. 















###### 15 







O Lord, open my lips, That my mouth may declare Your praise. 















###### 16 







For You do not delight in sacrifice, or else I would give it; You are not pleased with burnt offering. 















###### 17 







My [only] sacrifice [acceptable] to God is a broken spirit; A broken and contrite heart [broken with sorrow for sin, thoroughly penitent], such, O God, You will not despise. 















###### 18 







By Your favor do good to Zion; May You rebuild the walls of Jerusalem. 















###### 19 







Then will You delight in the sacrifices of righteousness, In burnt offering and whole burnt offering; Then young bulls will be offered on Your altar. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 51:7 This evidently was a bristly plant which was useful as a kind of brush.
