---
Aliases: [Psalms 60]
previous: ['Ps 59']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 61']
---
# Psalms 60

***
















###### 1 







O God, You have rejected us _and_ cast us off. You have broken [down our defenses and scattered] us; You have been angry; O restore us _and_ turn again to us. 















###### 2 







You have made the land quake, You have split it open; Heal its rifts, for it shakes _and_ totters. 















###### 3 







You have made Your people experience hardship; You have given us wine to drink that makes us stagger _and_ fall. 















###### 4 







You have set up a banner for those who fear You [with awe-inspired reverence and submissive wonder--a banner to shield them from attack], A banner that may be displayed because of the truth. Selah. 















###### 5 







That Your beloved ones may be rescued, Save with Your right hand and answer us. 















###### 6 







God has spoken in His holiness [in His promises]: "I will rejoice, I will divide [the land of] Shechem and measure out the Valley of Succoth [west to east]. 















###### 7 







"Gilead is Mine, and Manasseh is Mine; Ephraim is My helmet; Judah is My scepter. 















###### 8 







"Moab is My [^a]washbowl; Over Edom I shall throw My shoe [in triumph]; Over Philistia I raise the shout [of victory]." 















###### 9 







Who will bring me into the besieged city [of Petra]? Who will lead me to Edom? 















###### 10 







Have You not rejected us, O God? And will You not go out with our armies? 















###### 11 







Give us help against the enemy, For the help of man is worthless (ineffectual, without purpose). 















###### 12 







Through God we will have victory, For He will trample down our enemies. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 60:8 I.e. the household pot used for washing the feet.
