---
Aliases: [Psalms 66]
previous: ['Ps 65']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 67']
---
# Psalms 66

***
















###### 1 







Shout joyfully to God, all the earth; 















###### 2 







Sing of the honor _and_ glory _and_ magnificence of His name; Make His praise glorious. 















###### 3 







Say to God, "How awesome _and_ fearfully glorious are Your works! Because of the greatness of Your power Your enemies will pretend to be obedient to You. 















###### 4 







"All the earth will [bow down to] worship You [in submissive wonder], And will sing praises to You; They will praise Your name in song." Selah. 















###### 5 







Come and see the works of God, He is awesome in His deeds toward the children of men. 















###### 6 







He turned the sea into dry land; They crossed through the river on foot; There we rejoiced in Him. 















###### 7 







Who rules by His might forever, His eyes keep watch on the nations; Do not let the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah. 















###### 8 







Bless our God, O peoples, And make the sound of His praise _be heard_ abroad, 















###### 9 







Who keeps us among the living, And does not allow our feet to slip _or_ stumble. 















###### 10 







For You have tested us, O God; You have refined us as silver is refined. 















###### 11 







You brought us into the net; You laid a heavy burden [of servitude] on [^a]us. 















###### 12 







You made men (charioteers) [^b]ride over our heads [in defeat]; We went through fire and through water, Yet You brought us out into a [broad] _place of_ abundance [to be refreshed]. 















###### 13 







I shall come into Your house with burnt offerings; I shall pay You my vows, 















###### 14 







Which my lips uttered And my mouth spoke as a promise when I was in distress. 















###### 15 







I shall offer to You burnt offerings of fat lambs, With the [sweet] smoke of rams; I will offer bulls with male goats. Selah. 















###### 16 







Come and hear, all who fear God [and worship Him with awe-inspired reverence and obedience], And I will tell what He has done for me. 















###### 17 







I cried aloud to Him; He was highly praised with my tongue. 















###### 18 







If I regard sin _and_ baseness in my heart [that is, if I know it is there and do nothing about it], The Lord will not hear [me]; 















###### 19 







But certainly God has heard [me]; He has given heed to the voice of my prayer. 















###### 20 







Blessed be God, Who has not turned away my prayer Nor His lovingkindness from me. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 66:11 Lit _upon our loins_. [^b]: Psalm 66:12 The ancient rabbis understood this as times of captivity for Israel.
