---
Aliases: [Psalms 62]
previous: ['Ps 61']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 63']
---
# Psalms 62

***
















###### 1 







For God alone my soul _waits_ in silence; From Him comes my salvation. 















###### 2 







He alone is my rock and my salvation, My defense _and_ my strong tower; I will not be shaken _or_ disheartened. 















###### 3 







How long will you attack a man So that you may murder him, all of you, Like a leaning wall, like a tottering fence? 















###### 4 







They consult only to throw him down from his high position [to dishonor him]; They delight in lies. They bless with [the words of] their mouths, But inwardly they curse. Selah. 















###### 5 







For God alone my soul waits in silence _and_ quietly submits to Him, For my hope is from Him. 















###### 6 







He only is my rock and my salvation; My fortress _and_ my defense, I will not be shaken _or_ discouraged. 















###### 7 







On God my salvation and my glory rest; He is my rock of [unyielding] strength, my refuge is in God. 















###### 8 







Trust [confidently] in Him at all times, O people; Pour out your heart before Him. God is a refuge for us. Selah. 















###### 9 







Men of low degree are only a breath (emptiness), and men of [high] rank are a lie (delusion). In the balances they go up [because they have no measurable weight or value]; They are together lighter than a breath. 















###### 10 







Do not trust in oppression, And do not vainly hope in robbery; If riches increase, do not set your heart on them. 















###### 11 







God has spoken once, Twice I have heard this: That power belongs to God. 















###### 12 







Also to You, O Lord, belong lovingkindness _and_ compassion, For You compensate every man according to [the value of] his work. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
