---
Aliases: [Psalms 61]
previous: ['Ps 60']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 62']
---
# Psalms 61

***
















###### 1 







Hear my cry, O God; Listen to my prayer. 















###### 2 







From the end of the earth I call to You, when my heart is overwhelmed _and_ weak; Lead me to the rock that is higher than I [a rock that is too high to reach without Your help]. 















###### 3 







For You have been a shelter _and_ a refuge for me, A strong tower against the enemy. 















###### 4 







Let me dwell in Your tent forever; Let me take refuge in the shelter of Your wings. Selah. 















###### 5 







For You have heard my vows, O God; You have given me the inheritance of those who fear Your name [with reverence]. 















###### 6 







You will prolong the king's life [adding days upon days]; His years will be like many generations. 















###### 7 







He will sit enthroned forever before [the face of] God; Appoint lovingkindness and truth to watch over _and_ preserve him. 















###### 8 







So I will sing praise to Your name forever, Paying my vows day by day. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
