---
Aliases: [Psalms 63]
previous: ['Ps 62']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 64']
---
# Psalms 63

***
















###### 1 







O God, You are my God; with deepest longing I will seek You; My [^a]soul [my life, my very self] thirsts for You, my flesh longs _and_ sighs for You, In a dry and weary land where there is no water. 















###### 2 







So I have gazed upon You in the sanctuary, To see Your power and Your glory. 















###### 3 







Because Your lovingkindness is better than life, My lips shall praise You. 















###### 4 







So will I bless You as long as I live; I will lift up my hands in Your name. 















###### 5 







My [^b]soul [my life, my very self] is satisfied as with marrow and fatness, And my mouth offers praises [to You] with joyful lips. 















###### 6 







When I remember You on my bed, I meditate _and_ thoughtfully focus on You in the night watches, 















###### 7 







For You have been my help, And in the shadow of Your wings [where I am always protected] I sing for joy. 















###### 8 







My [^c]soul [my life, my very self] clings to You; Your right hand upholds me. 















###### 9 







But those who seek my life to destroy it Will [be destroyed and] go into the depths of the earth [into the underworld]. 















###### 10 







They will be given over to the power of the sword; They will be a prey for foxes. 















###### 11 







But the king will rejoice in God; Everyone who swears by Him [honoring the true God, acknowledging His authority and majesty] will glory, For the mouths of those who speak lies will be stopped. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 63:1 See note 42:1. [^b]: Psalm 63:5 See note 42:1. [^c]: Psalm 63:8 See note 42:1.
