---
Aliases: [Psalms 68]
previous: ['Ps 67']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 69']
---
# Psalms 68

***
















###### 1 







Let God arise, and His enemies be scattered; Let those who hate Him flee before Him. 















###### 2 







As smoke is driven away, so drive _them_ away; As wax melts before the fire, So let the wicked _and_ guilty perish before [the presence of] God. 















###### 3 







But let the righteous be glad; let them be in good spirits before God, Yes, let them rejoice with delight. 















###### 4 







Sing to God, sing praises to His name; Lift up _a song_ for Him who rides through the desert-- His name is the LORD--be in good spirits before Him. 















###### 5 







A father of the fatherless and a judge _and_ protector of the widows, Is God in His holy habitation. 















###### 6 







God makes a home for the lonely; He leads the prisoners into prosperity, Only the stubborn _and_ rebellious dwell in a parched land. 















###### 7 







O God, when You went out before Your people, When You marched through the wilderness, Selah. 















###### 8 







The earth trembled; The heavens also poured down _rain_ at the presence of God; Sinai itself trembled at the presence of God, the God of Israel. 















###### 9 







You, O God, sent abroad plentiful rain; You confirmed Your inheritance when it was parched _and_ weary. 















###### 10 







Your flock found a dwelling place in it; O God, in Your goodness You provided for the poor. 















###### 11 







The Lord gives the command [to take Canaan]; The women who proclaim the good news are a great host (army); 















###### 12 







"The kings of the [enemies'] armies flee, they flee, And the beautiful woman who remains at home divides the spoil [left behind]." 















###### 13 







When you lie down [to rest] among the [^a]sheepfolds, You [Israel] are like the wings of a dove [of victory] overlaid with silver, Its feathers glistening with gold [trophies taken from the enemy]. 















###### 14 







When the Almighty scattered [the Canaanite] kings in the land of Canaan, It was snowing on [^b]Zalmon. 















###### 15 







A mountain of God is the mountain of Bashan; A [high] mountain of many summits is Mount Bashan [rising east of the Jordan]. 















###### 16 







Why do you look with envy, mountains with many peaks, At the mountain [of the city of Zion] which God has desired for His dwelling place? Yes, the LORD will dwell _there_ forever. 















###### 17 







The chariots of God are [^c]myriads, thousands upon thousands; The Lord is among them as He was at Sinai, in holiness. 















###### 18 







You have ascended on high, You have led away captive _Your_ captives; You have received gifts among men, Even from the rebellious also, that the LORD God may dwell there. 















###### 19 







Blessed be the Lord, who bears our burden day by day, The God who is our salvation! Selah. 















###### 20 







God is to us a God of acts of salvation; And to [^d]God the Lord belong escapes from death [setting us free]. 















###### 21 







Surely God will shatter the head of His enemies, The hairy scalp of one who goes on in his guilty ways. 















###### 22 







The Lord said, "I will bring your enemies back from Bashan; I will bring them back from the depths of the [Red] Sea, 















###### 23 







That your foot may crush them in blood, That the tongue of your dogs _may have_ its share from your enemies." 















###### 24 







They have seen Your [solemn] [^e]procession, O God, The procession of my God, my King, into the sanctuary [in holiness]. 















###### 25 







The singers go in front, the players of instruments last; Between them the maidens playing on tambourines. 















###### 26 







Bless God in the congregations, [give thanks, gratefully praise Him], The LORD, _you who are_ from [Jacob] the fountain of Israel. 















###### 27 







The youngest is there, Benjamin, ruling them, The princes of Judah and their company [the southern tribes], The princes of Zebulun and the princes of Naphtali [the northern tribes]. 















###### 28 







Your God has commanded your strength [your power in His service and your resistance to temptation]; Show Yourself strong, O God, who acted on our behalf. 















###### 29 







Because of Your temple at Jerusalem [Pagan] kings will bring gifts to You [out of respect]. 















###### 30 







Rebuke the beasts [living] among the reeds [in Egypt], The herd of bulls (the leaders) with the calves of the peoples; Trampling underfoot the pieces of silver; He has scattered the peoples who delight in war. 















###### 31 







Princes _and_ envoys shall come from Egypt; Ethiopia will quickly stretch out her hands [with the offerings of submission] to God. 















###### 32 







Sing to God, O kingdoms of the earth, Sing praises to the Lord! Selah. 















###### 33 







To Him who rides in the highest heavens, the ancient heavens, Behold, He sends out His voice, a mighty _and_ majestic voice. 















###### 34 







Ascribe strength to God; His majesty is over Israel And His strength is in the skies. 















###### 35 







O God, _You are_ awesome _and_ profoundly majestic from Your sanctuary; The God of Israel gives strength and power to His people. Blessed be God! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 68:13 Or _cooking stones_ or _saddlebags_. [^b]: Psalm 68:14 I.e. a dark, wooded hill near Shechem. [^c]: Psalm 68:17 Lit _multiples of ten thousand_. [^d]: Psalm 68:20 Heb _YHWH (Yahweh)_, usually rendered Lord. [^e]: Psalm 68:24 A reference to the procession bringing the ark of the covenant to Mt. Zion.
