---
Aliases: [Psalms 64]
previous: ['Ps 63']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 65']
---
# Psalms 64

***
















###### 1 







Hear my voice, O God, in my [^a]complaint; Guard my life from the terror of the enemy. 















###### 2 







Hide me from the secret counsel _and_ conspiracy of the ungodly, From the scheming of those who do wrong, 















###### 3 







Who have sharpened their tongues like a sword. They aim venomous words as arrows, 















###### 4 







To shoot from ambush at the blameless [one]; Suddenly they shoot at him, without fear. 















###### 5 







They encourage themselves in [their pursuit of] an evil agenda; They talk of laying snares secretly; They say, "Who will discover us?" 















###### 6 







They devise acts of injustice, _saying_, "We are ready with a well-conceived plan." For the inward thought and the heart of a man are deep (mysterious, unsearchable). 















###### 7 







But God will shoot them with an [unexpected] arrow; Suddenly they will be wounded. 















###### 8 







So they will be caused to stumble; Their own tongue is against them; All who gaze at them will shake the head [in scorn]. 















###### 9 







Then all men will fear [God's judgment]; They will declare the work of God, And they will consider _and_ wisely acknowledge what He has done. 















###### 10 







The righteous will rejoice in the LORD and take refuge in Him; All the upright in heart will glory _and_ offer praise. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 64:1 Or _concern_.
