---
Aliases: [Psalms 69]
previous: ['Ps 68']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 70']
---
# Psalms 69

***
















###### 1 







Save me, O God, For the waters have threatened my life [they have come up to my neck]. 















###### 2 







I have sunk in deep mire, where there is no foothold; I have come into deep waters, where a flood overwhelms me. 















###### 3 







I am weary with my crying; my throat is parched; My eyes fail while I wait [with confident expectation] for my God. 















###### 4 







Those who hate me without cause are more than the hairs of my head; Those who would destroy me are powerful, being my enemies wrongfully; I am forced to restore what I did not steal. 















###### 5 







O God, You know my folly; My wrongs are not hidden from You. 















###### 6 







Do not let those who wait [confidently] for You be [^a]ashamed through me, O Lord [^b]God of hosts; Do not let those who seek You [as necessary for life itself] be dishonored through me, O God of Israel, 















###### 7 







Because for Your sake I have borne reproach; Confusion _and_ dishonor have covered my face. 















###### 8 







I have become estranged from my brothers And an alien to my mother's sons. 















###### 9 







For zeal for Your house has consumed me, And the [mocking] insults of those who insult You have fallen on me. 















###### 10 







When I wept _and_ humbled myself with fasting, It became my reproach. 















###### 11 







When I made sackcloth my clothing [as one in mourning], I became a byword [a mere object of scorn] to them. 















###### 12 







They who sit in the [city's] gate talk about me _and_ mock me, And I am the song of the drunkards. 















###### 13 







But as for me, my prayer is to You, O LORD, at an acceptable _and_ opportune time; O God, in the greatness of Your favor _and_ in the abundance of Your lovingkindness, Answer me with truth [that is, the faithfulness of Your salvation]. 















###### 14 







Rescue me from the mire and do not let me sink; Let me be rescued from those who hate me and from the deep waters. 















###### 15 







Do not let the floodwater overwhelm me, Nor the deep waters swallow me up, Nor the pit [of Sheol] shut its mouth over me. 















###### 16 







Answer me, O LORD, for Your lovingkindness is sweet _and_ good _and_ comforting; According to the greatness of Your compassion, turn to me. 















###### 17 







Do not hide Your face from Your servant, For I am in distress; answer me quickly. 















###### 18 







Draw near to my soul and redeem it; Ransom me because of my enemies [so that they do not delight in my distress]. 















###### 19 







You know my reproach and my shame and my dishonor [how I am insulted]; My adversaries are all before You [each one fully known]. 















###### 20 







Reproach _and_ insults have broken my heart and I am so sick. I looked for sympathy, but there was none, And for comforters, but I found none. 















###### 21 







They (self-righteous hypocrites) also gave me gall [poisonous and bitter] for my food, And for my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink. 















###### 22 







May their table [with all its abundance and luxury] become a snare [to them]; And when they are in peace [secure at their sacrificial feasts], _may it become_ a trap. 















###### 23 







May their eyes be dimmed so that they cannot see, And make their loins shake continually [in terror and weakness]. 















###### 24 







Pour out Your indignation on them, And let [the fierceness of] Your burning anger overtake them. 















###### 25 







May their encampment be desolate; May no one dwell in their tents. 















###### 26 







For they have persecuted him whom You have struck, And they tell of the pain of those whom You have pierced _and_ wounded. 















###### 27 







Add [unforgiven] iniquity to their iniquity [in Your book], And may they not come into Your [^c]righteousness. 















###### 28 







May they be blotted out of the book of life [and their lives come to an end] And may they not be recorded with the righteous (those in right standing with God). 















###### 29 







But I am sorrowful and in pain; May Your salvation, O God, set me [securely] on high. 















###### 30 







I will praise the name of God with song And magnify Him with thanksgiving. 















###### 31 







And it will please the LORD better than an ox Or a young bull with horns and hoofs. 















###### 32 







The humble have seen it and are glad; You who seek God [requiring Him as your greatest need], let your heart revive _and_ live. 















###### 33 







For the LORD hears the needy And does not despise His _who are_ prisoners. 















###### 34 







Let heaven and earth praise Him, The seas and everything that moves in them. 















###### 35 







For God will save Zion and rebuild the cities of Judah, That His servants may remain there and possess it. 















###### 36 







The descendants of His servants will inherit it, And those who love His name will dwell in it. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 69:6 I.e. have their expectations in Your goodness be disappointed. [^b]: Psalm 69:6 Heb _YHWH (Yahweh)_, usually rendered Lord. [^c]: Psalm 69:27 I.e. be justified and acquitted by You.
