---
Aliases: [Psalms 65]
previous: ['Ps 64']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 66']
---
# Psalms 65

***
















###### 1 







To You belongs silence [the submissive wonder of reverence], and [it bursts into] praise in Zion, O God; And to You the vow shall be performed. 















###### 2 







O You who hear prayer, To You all mankind comes. 















###### 3 







Wickedness _and_ guilt prevail against me; Yet as for our transgressions, You forgive them [removing them from Your sight]. 















###### 4 







Blessed is the one whom You choose and bring near To dwell in Your courts. We will be filled with the goodness of Your house, Your holy temple. 















###### 5 







By awesome _and_ wondrous things You answer us in righteousness, O God of our salvation, You who are the trust _and_ hope of all the ends of the earth and of the farthest sea; 















###### 6 







Who creates the mountains by His strength, Being clothed with power, 















###### 7 







Who stills the roaring of the seas, The roaring of their waves, And the tumult of the peoples, 















###### 8 







So they who dwell at the ends _of the earth_ stand in awe of Your signs [the evidence of Your presence]. You make the dawn and the sunset shout for joy. 















###### 9 







You visit the earth and make it overflow [with water]; You greatly enrich it; The stream of God is full of water; You provide their grain, when You have prepared the earth. 















###### 10 







You water its furrows abundantly, You smooth its ridges; You soften it with showers, You bless its growth. 















###### 11 







You crown the year with Your bounty, And Your paths overflow. 















###### 12 







The pastures of the wilderness drip [with dew], And the hills are encircled with joy. 















###### 13 







The meadows are clothed with flocks And the valleys are covered with grain; They shout for joy and they sing. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
