---
Aliases: [Psalms 74]
previous: ['Ps 73']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 75']
---
# Psalms 74

***
















###### 1 







O God, why have You rejected us forever? Why does Your anger smoke against the sheep of Your pasture? 















###### 2 







Remember Your congregation, which You have purchased of old, Which You have redeemed to be the tribe of Your inheritance; Remember Mount Zion, where You have dwelt. 















###### 3 







Turn your footsteps [quickly] toward the perpetual ruins; The enemy has damaged everything within the sanctuary. 















###### 4 







In the midst of Your meeting place Your enemies have roared [with their battle cry]; They have set up their own emblems for signs [of victory]. 















###### 5 







It seems as if one had lifted up An axe in a forest of trees [to set a record of destruction]. 















###### 6 







And now all the carved work [of the meeting place] They smash with hatchets and hammers. 















###### 7 







They have burned Your sanctuary to the ground; They have profaned the dwelling place of Your [^a]name. 















###### 8 







They said in their heart, "Let us completely subdue them." They have burned all the meeting places of God in the land. 















###### 9 







We do not see our symbols; There is no longer any prophet [to guide us], Nor does any among us know for how long. 















###### 10 







O God, how long will the adversary scoff? Is the enemy to revile Your name forever? 















###### 11 







Why do You withdraw Your hand, even Your right hand [from judging the enemy]? _Remove Your hand_ from Your chest, destroy _them_! 















###### 12 







Yet God is my King of old, Working salvation in the midst of the earth. 















###### 13 







You divided the [Red] Sea by Your strength; You broke the heads of the [^b]sea monsters in the waters. 















###### 14 







You crushed the heads of [^c]Leviathan (Egypt); You gave him as food for the creatures of the wilderness. 















###### 15 







You broke open fountains and streams; You dried up ever-flowing rivers. 















###### 16 







The day is Yours, the night also is Yours; You have established _and_ prepared the [heavenly] light and the sun. 















###### 17 







You have defined _and_ established all the borders of the earth [the divisions of land and sea and of the nations]; You have made summer and winter. 















###### 18 







Remember this, O LORD, the enemy has scoffed, And a foolish _and_ impious people has spurned Your name. 















###### 19 







Oh, do not hand over the soul of your turtledove to the wild beast; Do not forget the life of Your afflicted forever. 















###### 20 







Consider the covenant [You made with Abraham], For the dark places of the land are full of the habitations of violence. 















###### 21 







Let not the oppressed return dishonored; Let the afflicted and needy praise Your name. 















###### 22 







Arise, O God, plead Your own cause; Remember how the foolish man scoffs at You all day long. 















###### 23 







Do not forget the [clamoring] voices of Your adversaries, The uproar of those who rise against You, which ascends continually [to Your ears]. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 74:7 See note Deut 12:5. [^b]: Psalm 74:13 Symbolic of Egypt’s power. [^c]: Psalm 74:14 See note Job 41:1.
