---
Aliases: [Psalms 73]
previous: ['Ps 72']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 74']
---
# Psalms 73

***
















###### 1 







Truly God is good to Israel, To those who are pure in heart. 















###### 2 







But as for me, my feet came close to stumbling, My steps had almost slipped. 















###### 3 







For I was envious of the arrogant As I saw the prosperity of the wicked. 















###### 4 







For there are no pains in their death, Their body is fat _and_ pampered. 















###### 5 







They are not in trouble _as other_ men, Nor are they plagued like mankind. 















###### 6 







Therefore pride is their necklace; Violence covers them like a garment [like a long, luxurious robe]. 















###### 7 







Their eye bulges from fatness [they have more than the heart desires]; The imaginations of their mind run riot [with foolishness]. 















###### 8 







They mock and wickedly speak of oppression; They speak loftily [with malice]. 















###### 9 







They set their mouth against the heavens, And their tongue swaggers through the earth. 















###### 10 







Therefore his people return to this place, And waters of abundance [offered by the irreverent] are [blindly] drunk by them. 















###### 11 







They say, "How does God know? Is there knowledge [of us] with the Most High?" 















###### 12 







Behold, these are the ungodly, Who always prosper _and_ are at ease [in the world]; they have increased in wealth. 















###### 13 







Surely then in vain I have cleansed my heart And washed my hands in innocence. 















###### 14 







For all the day long have I been stricken, And punished every morning. 















###### 15 







If I had said, "I will say this," [and expressed my feelings], I would have betrayed the generation of Your children. 















###### 16 







When I considered how to understand this, It was too great an effort for me _and_ too painful 















###### 17 







Until I came into the sanctuary of God; Then I understood [for I considered] their end. 















###### 18 







Surely You set the wicked-minded _and_ immoral on slippery places; You cast them down to destruction. 















###### 19 







How they are destroyed in a moment! They are completely swept away by sudden terrors! 















###### 20 







Like a dream [which seems real] until one awakens, O Lord, when stirred, [You observe the wicked], You will despise their image. 















###### 21 







When my heart was embittered And I was pierced within [as with the fang of an adder], 















###### 22 







Then I was senseless and ignorant; I was like a beast before You. 















###### 23 







Nevertheless I am continually with You; You have taken hold of my right hand. 















###### 24 







You will guide me with Your counsel, And afterward receive me to honor _and_ glory. 















###### 25 







Whom have I in heaven [but You]? And besides You, I desire nothing on earth. 















###### 26 







My flesh and my heart may fail, But God is the rock _and_ strength of my heart and my portion forever. 















###### 27 







For behold, those who are far from You will perish; You have destroyed all those who are unfaithful _and_ have abandoned You. 















###### 28 







But as for me, it is good for me to draw near to God; I have made the Lord God my refuge _and_ placed my trust in Him, That I may tell of all Your works. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
