---
Aliases: [Psalms 72]
previous: ['Ps 71']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 73']
---
# Psalms 72

***
















###### 1 







Give the king [knowledge of] Your judgments, O God, And [the spirit of] Your righteousness to the king's son [to guide all his ways]. 















###### 2 







May he judge Your people with righteousness, And Your afflicted with justice. 















###### 3 







The mountains will bring peace _and_ prosperity to the people, And the hills, in [the establishment of] righteousness. 















###### 4 







May he bring justice to the poor among the people, Save the children of the needy And crush the oppressor, 















###### 5 







Let them fear You [with awe-inspired reverence and worship You with obedience] while the sun endures, And as long as the moon [reflects light], throughout all generations. 















###### 6 







May he come down like rain on the mown grass, Like showers that water the earth. 















###### 7 







In his days may the righteous flourish, And peace abound until the moon is no more. 















###### 8 







May he also rule from sea to sea And from the River [Euphrates] to the ends of the earth. 















###### 9 







The nomads of the desert will bow before him, And his enemies will [^a]lick the dust. 















###### 10 







The kings of Tarshish and of the islands will bring offerings; The kings of Sheba and Seba will offer gifts. 















###### 11 







Yes, all kings will bow down before him, All nations will serve him. 















###### 12 







For he will rescue the needy when he cries for help, The afflicted _and_ abused also, and him who has no helper. 















###### 13 







He will have compassion on the poor and needy, And he will save the lives of the needy. 















###### 14 







He will redeem their life from oppression _and_ fraud and violence, And their blood will be precious in His sight. 















###### 15 







So may he live, and may the gold of Sheba be given to him; And let them pray for him continually; Let them bless _and_ praise him all day long. 















###### 16 







There will be an abundance of grain in the soil on the top of the [^b]mountains; Its fruit will wave like [the cedars of] Lebanon, And those of the city will flourish like grass of the earth. 















###### 17 







May his name endure forever; May his name continue as long as the sun; And let men bless themselves by him; Let all nations call him blessed. 















###### 18 







Blessed be the LORD God, the God of Israel, Who alone does wonderful things. 















###### 19 







Blessed be His glorious name forever; And may the whole earth be filled with His glory. Amen and Amen. 















###### 20 







The prayers of David son of Jesse are ended. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 72:9 I.e. lay themselves face down in submission. [^b]: Psalm 72:16 I.e. the most barren part of the land.
