---
Aliases: [Psalms 76]
previous: ['Ps 75']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 77']
---
# Psalms 76

***
















###### 1 







God is known in Judah; His name is great in Israel. 















###### 2 







His tabernacle is in Salem (Jerusalem); His dwelling place is in Zion. 















###### 3 







There He broke the flaming arrows, The shield, the sword, and the weapons of war. Selah. 















###### 4 







You are glorious _and_ resplendent, More majestic than the mountains of prey. 















###### 5 







The stouthearted have been stripped of their spoil, They have slept the sleep [of death]; And none of the warriors could use his hands. 















###### 6 







At Your rebuke, O God of Jacob, Both rider and horse were cast into a dead sleep [of death]. 















###### 7 







You, even You, are to be feared [with the submissive wonder of reverence]; Who may stand in Your presence when once You are angry? 















###### 8 







You caused judgment to be heard from heaven; The earth feared and was quiet 















###### 9 







When God arose to [establish] judgment, To save all the humble of the earth. Selah. 















###### 10 







For the wrath of man shall praise You; With a remnant of wrath You will clothe _and_ arm Yourself. 















###### 11 







Make vows to the LORD your God and fulfill them; Let all who are around Him bring gifts to Him who is to be feared [with awe-inspired reverence]. 















###### 12 







He will cut off the spirit of princes; He is awesome _and_ feared by the kings of the earth. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
