---
Aliases: [Psalms 71]
previous: ['Ps 70']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 72']
---
# Psalms 71

***
















###### 1 







In you, O LORD, I have put my trust _and_ confidently taken refuge; Let me never be [^a]put to shame. 















###### 2 







In Your righteousness deliver me and rescue me; Incline Your ear to me and save me. 















###### 3 







Be to me a rock of refuge _and_ a sheltering stronghold to which I may continually come; You have given the commandment to save me, For You are my rock and my fortress. 















###### 4 







Rescue me, O my God, from the hand of the wicked (godless), From the grasp of the unrighteous and ruthless man. 















###### 5 







For You are my hope; O Lord God, _You are_ my trust _and_ the source of my confidence from my youth. 















###### 6 







Upon You have I relied _and_ been sustained from my birth; You are He who took me from my mother's womb _and_ You have been my benefactor from that day. My praise is continually of You. 















###### 7 







I am as a wonder to many, For You are my strong refuge. 















###### 8 







My mouth is filled with Your praise And with Your glory all day long. 















###### 9 







Do not cast me off _nor_ send me away in the time of old age; Do not abandon me when my strength fails _and_ I am weak. 















###### 10 







For my enemies have spoken against me; Those who watch for my life have consulted together, 















###### 11 







Saying, "God has abandoned him; Pursue and seize him, for there is no one to rescue _him_." 















###### 12 







O God, do not be far from me; O my God, come quickly to help me! 















###### 13 







Let those who attack my life be ashamed and consumed; Let them be covered with reproach and dishonor, who seek to injure me. 















###### 14 







But as for me, I will wait _and_ hope continually, And will praise You yet more and more. 















###### 15 







My mouth shall tell of Your righteousness And of Your [deeds of] salvation all day long, For their number is more than I know. 















###### 16 







I will come with the mighty acts of the Lord God [and in His strength]; I will make mention of Your righteousness, Yours alone. 















###### 17 







O God, You have taught me from my youth, And I still declare Your wondrous works _and_ miraculous deeds. 















###### 18 







And even when I am old and gray-headed, O God, do not abandon me, Until I declare Your [mighty] strength to this generation, Your power to all who are to come. 















###### 19 







Your righteousness, O God, _reaches_ to the [height of the] heavens, You who have done great things; O God, who is like You, [who is Your equal]? 















###### 20 







You who have shown [^b]me many troubles and distresses Will revive _and_ renew me again, And will bring me up again from the depths of the earth. 















###### 21 







May You increase my greatness (honor) And turn to comfort me. 















###### 22 







I will also praise You with the harp, Your truth _and_ faithfulness, O my God; To You I will sing praises with the lyre, O Holy One of Israel. 















###### 23 







My lips will shout for joy when I sing praises to You, And my soul, which You have redeemed. 















###### 24 







My tongue also will speak of Your righteousness all day long; For they are ashamed, for they are humiliated who seek my injury. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 71:1 I.e. have my expectations in Your goodness be disappointed. [^b]: Psalm 71:20 Another reading is _us_.
