---
Aliases: [Psalms 75]
previous: ['Ps 74']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 76']
---
# Psalms 75

***
















###### 1 







We give thanks _and_ praise to You, O God, we give thanks, For Your [wonderful works declare that Your] [^a]name is near; People declare Your wonders. 















###### 2 







"When I select an appointed time, I will judge with equity," [says the LORD]. 















###### 3 







"The earth and all the inhabitants of it melt [in tumultuous times]. It is I who will steady its pillars. Selah. 















###### 4 







"I said to the arrogant, 'Do not boast;' And to the wicked, 'Do not lift up the horn [of self-glorification]. 















###### 5 







'Do not lift up your [defiant and aggressive] horn on high, Do not speak with a stiff neck.'" 















###### 6 







For not from the east, nor from the west, Nor from the desert comes exaltation. 















###### 7 







But God is the Judge; He puts down one and lifts up another. 















###### 8 







For a cup [of His wrath] is in the hand of the LORD, and the wine foams; It is well mixed _and_ fully spiced, and He pours out from it; And all the wicked of the earth must drain it and drink down to its dregs. 















###### 9 







But as for me, I will declare it _and_ rejoice forever; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob. 















###### 10 







All the horns of the wicked He will cut off, But the horns of the righteous will be lifted up. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 75:1 See note Deut 12:5.
