---
Aliases: [Psalms 77]
previous: ['Ps 76']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 78']
---
# Psalms 77

***
















###### 1 







My voice rises to God, and I will cry aloud; My voice rises to God, and He will hear me. 















###### 2 







In the day of my trouble I [desperately] sought the Lord; In the night my hand was [^a]stretched out [in prayer] without weariness; My soul refused to be comforted. 















###### 3 







I remember God; then I am disquieted _and_ I groan; I sigh [in prayer], and my spirit grows faint. Selah. 















###### 4 







You have held my eyelids open; I am so troubled that I cannot speak. 















###### 5 







I have considered the ancient days, The years [of prosperity] of long, long ago. 















###### 6 







I will remember my song in the night; I will meditate with my heart, And my spirit searches: 















###### 7 







Will the Lord reject forever? And will He never be favorable again? 















###### 8 







Has His lovingkindness ceased forever? Have His promises ended for all time? 















###### 9 







Has God forgotten to be gracious? Or has He in anger withdrawn His compassion? Selah. 















###### 10 







And I said, "This is my grief, That the right hand of the Most High has changed [and His lovingkindness is withheld]." 















###### 11 







I will [solemnly] remember the deeds of the LORD; Yes, I will [wholeheartedly] remember Your wonders of old. 















###### 12 







I will meditate on all Your works And thoughtfully consider all Your [great and wondrous] deeds. 















###### 13 







Your way, O God, is holy [far from sin and guilt]. What god is great like our God? 















###### 14 







You are the [awesome] God who works [powerful] wonders; You have demonstrated Your power among the people. 















###### 15 







You have with Your [great] arm redeemed Your people, The sons of Jacob and Joseph. Selah. 















###### 16 







The waters [of the Red Sea] saw You, O God; The waters saw You, they were in anguish; The deeps also trembled. 















###### 17 







The clouds poured down water; The skies sent out a sound [of rumbling thunder]; Your arrows (lightning) flashed here and there. 















###### 18 







The voice of Your thunder was in the [^b]whirlwind; The lightnings illumined the world; The earth trembled and shook. 















###### 19 







Your way [of escape for Your people] was through the sea, And Your paths through the great waters, And Your footprints were not traceable. 















###### 20 







You led Your people like a flock By the hand of Moses and Aaron [to the promised goal]. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 77:2 Lit _and did not grow numb_. [^b]: Psalm 77:18 Lit _wheel_, possibly referring instead to the wheels on God’s chariot.
