---
Aliases: [Psalms 79]
previous: ['Ps 78']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 80']
---
# Psalms 79

***
















###### 1 







O God, the nations have invaded [the land of Your people] Your inheritance; They have defiled Your sacred temple; They have laid Jerusalem in ruins. 















###### 2 







They have given the dead bodies of Your servants as food to the birds of the heavens, The flesh of Your godly ones to the beasts of the earth. 















###### 3 







They have poured out their blood like water all around Jerusalem, And there was no one to bury them. 















###### 4 







We have become an object of taunting to our neighbors [because of our humiliation], A derision and mockery to those who encircle us. 















###### 5 







How long, O LORD? Will You be angry forever? Will Your jealousy [which cannot endure a divided allegiance] burn like fire? 















###### 6 







Pour out Your wrath on the [Gentile] nations that do not know You, And on the kingdoms that do not call on Your name. 















###### 7 







For they have devoured Jacob And made his pasture desolate. 















###### 8 







O do not remember against us the sins _and_ guilt of our forefathers. Let Your compassion _and_ mercy come quickly to meet us, For we have been brought very low. 















###### 9 







Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of Your name; Rescue us, forgive us our sins for Your name's sake. 















###### 10 







Why should the [Gentile] nations say, "Where is their God?" Let there be known [without delay] among the nations in our sight [and to this generation], Your vengeance for the blood of Your servants which has been poured out. 















###### 11 







Let the groaning _and_ sighing of the prisoner come before You; According to the greatness of Your power keep safe those who are doomed to die. 















###### 12 







And return into the lap of our neighbors sevenfold The taunts with which they have taunted You, O Lord. 















###### 13 







So we Your people, the sheep of Your pasture, Will give You thanks forever; We will declare _and_ publish Your praise from generation to generation. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
