---
Aliases: [Psalms 84]
previous: ['Ps 83']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 85']
---
# Psalms 84

***
















###### 1 







How lovely are Your dwelling places, O LORD of hosts! 















###### 2 







My soul (my life, my inner self) longs for and greatly desires the courts of the LORD; My heart and my flesh sing for joy to the living God. 















###### 3 







The bird has found a house, And the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young-- Even Your altars, O LORD of hosts, My King and my God. 















###### 4 







Blessed _and_ greatly favored are those who dwell in Your house _and_ Your presence; They will be singing Your praises all the day long. Selah. 















###### 5 







Blessed _and_ greatly favored is the man whose strength is in You, In [^b]whose heart are the highways _to Zion_. 















###### 6 







Passing through the Valley of Weeping ([^c]Baca), they make it a place of springs; The early rain also covers it with blessings. 















###### 7 







They go from strength to strength [increasing in victorious power]; _Each of them_ appears before God in Zion. 















###### 8 







O LORD God of hosts, hear my prayer; Listen, O God of Jacob! Selah. 















###### 9 







See our shield, O God, And look at the face of Your anointed [the king as Your representative]. 















###### 10 







For a day in Your courts is better than a thousand [anywhere else]; I would rather stand [as a doorkeeper] at the threshold of the house of my God Than to live [at ease] in the tents of wickedness. 















###### 11 







For the LORD God is a sun and shield; The LORD bestows grace _and_ favor and honor; No good thing will He withhold from those who walk uprightly. 















###### 12 







O LORD of hosts, How blessed _and_ greatly favored is the man who trusts in You [believing in You, relying on You, and committing himself to You with confident hope and expectation]. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 84:1 A technical musical term, meaning uncertain. [^b]: Psalm 84:5 Lit _their_. [^c]: Psalm 84:6 Possibly a kind of plant.
