---
Aliases: [Psalms 89]
previous: ['Ps 88']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 90']
---
# Psalms 89

***
















###### 1 







I will sing of the goodness _and_ lovingkindness of the LORD forever; With my mouth I will make known Your faithfulness from generation to generation. 















###### 2 







For I have said, "Goodness _and_ lovingkindness will be built up forever; In the heavens [unchangeable and majestic] You will establish Your faithfulness." 















###### 3 







[God has said] "I have made a covenant with My chosen one; I have sworn to David My servant, 















###### 4 







I will establish your seed forever And I will build up your throne for all generations." Selah. 















###### 5 







The heavens (angels) praise Your wonders, O LORD, Your faithfulness also in the assembly of the holy ones. 















###### 6 







For who in the heavens can be compared to the LORD? Who among the divine beings is like the LORD, 















###### 7 







A God greatly feared _and_ reverently worshiped in the council of the holy [angelic] ones, And awesome above all those who are around Him? 















###### 8 







O LORD God of hosts, who is like You, O mighty LORD? Your faithfulness surrounds You [as an intrinsic, unchangeable part of Your very being]. 















###### 9 







You rule the swelling of the sea; When its waves rise, You still them. 















###### 10 







You have crushed Rahab (Egypt) like one who is slain; You have scattered Your enemies with Your mighty arm. 















###### 11 







The heavens are Yours, the earth also is Yours; The world and all that is in it, You have founded _and_ established them. 















###### 12 







The north and the south, You have created them; Mount Tabor and Mount Hermon shout for joy at Your name. 















###### 13 







You have a strong arm; Mighty is Your hand, Your right hand is exalted. 















###### 14 







Righteousness and justice are the foundation of Your throne; Lovingkindness and truth go before You. 















###### 15 







Blessed _and_ happy are the people who know the joyful sound [of the trumpet's blast]! They walk, O LORD, in the light _and_ favor of Your countenance! 















###### 16 







In Your name they rejoice all the day, And in Your righteousness they are exalted. 















###### 17 







For You are the glory of their strength [their proud adornment], And by Your favor our horn is exalted. 















###### 18 







For our shield belongs to the LORD, And our king to the Holy One of Israel. 















###### 19 







Once You spoke in a vision to Your godly ones, And said, "I have given help to one who is mighty [giving him the power to be a champion for Israel]; I have exalted one chosen from the people. 















###### 20 







"I have found David My servant; With My holy oil I have anointed him, 















###### 21 







With whom My hand shall be established _and_ steadfast; My arm also shall strengthen him. 















###### 22 







"The enemy will not outwit him, Nor will the wicked man afflict _or_ humiliate him. 















###### 23 







"I will crush his adversaries before him, And strike those who hate him. 















###### 24 







"My faithfulness and My steadfast lovingkindness shall be with him, And in My name shall his horn be exalted [great power and prosperity shall be conferred upon him]. 















###### 25 







"I will also [^a]set his hand on the [Mediterranean] sea, And his right hand on the rivers [the tributaries of the Euphrates]. 















###### 26 







"He will cry to Me, 'You are my Father, My God, and the rock of my salvation.' 















###### 27 







"I will also make him My firstborn (preeminent), The highest of the kings of the earth. 















###### 28 







"My lovingkindness I will keep for him forevermore, And My covenant will be confirmed to him. 















###### 29 







"His descendants I will establish forever, And his throne [will endure] as the days of heaven. 















###### 30 







"If his children [^b]turn away from My law And do not walk in My ordinances, 















###### 31 







If they break My statutes And do not keep My commandments, 















###### 32 







Then I will punish their transgression with the rod [of discipline], And [correct] their wickedness with stripes. 















###### 33 







"Nevertheless, I will not break off My lovingkindness from him, Nor allow My faithfulness to fail. 















###### 34 







"My covenant I will not violate, Nor will I alter the utterance of My lips. 















###### 35 







"Once [for all] I have sworn by My holiness, [My vow which cannot be violated]; I will not lie to David. 















###### 36 







"His [^c]descendants shall endure forever And his throne [will continue] as the sun before Me. 















###### 37 







"It shall be established forever like the moon, And the witness in the heavens is ever faithful." Selah. 















###### 38 







But [in apparent contradiction of all this] You [the faithful LORD] have cast off and rejected; You have been full of wrath against Your anointed. 















###### 39 







You have spurned _and_ repudiated the covenant with Your servant; You have profaned his crown [by casting it] in the dust. 















###### 40 







You have broken down all his [city] walls; You have brought his strongholds to ruin. 















###### 41 







All who pass along the road rob him; He has become the scorn of his neighbors. 















###### 42 







You have exalted the right hand of his foes; You have made all his enemies rejoice. 















###### 43 







Also, You have turned back the edge of his sword And have not made him [strong enough] to stand in battle. 















###### 44 







You have put an end to his splendor And have hurled his throne to the ground. 















###### 45 







You have shortened the days of his youth; You have covered him with shame. Selah. 















###### 46 







How long, O LORD? Will You hide Yourself forever? Will Your wrath burn like fire? 















###### 47 







Remember how fleeting my lifetime is; For what vanity, [for what emptiness, for what futility, for what wisp of smoke] You have created all the sons of men! 















###### 48 







What man can live and not see death? Can he rescue his soul from the [powerful] hand of Sheol (the nether world, the place of the dead)? Selah. 















###### 49 







O Lord, where are Your former lovingkindnesses [so abundant in the days of David and Solomon], Which You swore to David in Your faithfulness? 















###### 50 







Remember, O Lord, the reproach of Your servants [scorned, insulted, and disgraced]; How I bear in [^d]my heart the reproach of all the many peoples, 















###### 51 







With which Your enemies have taunted, O LORD, With which they have mocked the footsteps of Your anointed. 















###### 52 







Blessed be the LORD forevermore! Amen and Amen. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 89:25 I.e. extend his area of influence. [^b]: Psalm 89:30 Lit _forsake_. [^c]: Psalm 89:36 Lit _seed_. [^d]: Psalm 89:50 Lit _the fold of my garment_.
