---
Aliases: [Psalms 82]
previous: ['Ps 81']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 83']
---
# Psalms 82

***
















###### 1 







God stands in the divine assembly; He judges among the gods (divine beings). 















###### 2 







How long will you judge unjustly And show partiality to the wicked? Selah. 















###### 3 







Vindicate the weak and fatherless; Do justice _and_ maintain the rights of the afflicted and destitute. 















###### 4 







Rescue the weak and needy; Rescue them from the hand of the wicked. 















###### 5 







The rulers do not know nor do they understand; They walk on in the darkness [of complacent satisfaction]; All the foundations of the earth [the fundamental principles of the administration of justice] are shaken. 















###### 6 







I said, "You are [^a]gods; Indeed, all of you are sons of the Most High. 















###### 7 







"Nevertheless you will die like men And fall like any one of the princes." 















###### 8 







Arise, O God, judge the earth! For to You belong all the nations. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 82:6 Most of the ancient rabbis understood the idea of “gods” referring to judges, but some applied vv 6, 7 to the Israelites at Sinai and maintained that they would have become immortal as a result of accepting the Law, if only they had not committed the sin of the golden calf.
