---
Aliases: [Psalms 85]
previous: ['Ps 84']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 86']
---
# Psalms 85

***
















###### 1 







O LORD, You have [at last] shown favor to Your land [of Canaan]; You have restored [from Babylon] the captives of Jacob (Israel). 















###### 2 







You have forgiven the wickedness of Your people; You have covered all their sin. Selah. 















###### 3 







You have withdrawn all Your wrath, You have turned away from Your burning anger. 















###### 4 







Restore us, O God of our salvation, And cause Your indignation toward us to cease. 















###### 5 







Will You be angry with us forever? Will You prolong Your anger to all generations? 















###### 6 







Will You not revive us _and_ bring us to life again, That Your people may rejoice in You? 















###### 7 







Show us Your lovingkindness, O LORD, And grant us Your salvation. 















###### 8 







I will hear [with expectant hope] what God the LORD will say, For He will speak peace to His people, to His [^a]godly ones-- But let them not turn again to folly. 















###### 9 







Surely His salvation is near to those who [reverently] fear Him [and obey Him with submissive wonder], That glory [the manifest presence of God] may dwell in our land. 















###### 10 







Steadfast love and truth _and_ faithfulness meet together; Righteousness and peace kiss each other. 















###### 11 







Truth springs from the earth, And righteousness looks down from heaven. 















###### 12 







Indeed, the LORD will give what is good, And our land will yield its produce. 















###### 13 







Righteousness will go before Him And will make His footsteps into a way [in which to walk]. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 85:8 I.e. believers, those in right standing with Him.
