---
Aliases: [Psalms 86]
previous: ['Ps 85']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 87']
---
# Psalms 86

***
















###### 1 







Incline Your ear, O LORD, and answer me, For I am distressed and needy [I long for Your help]. 















###### 2 







Protect my life (soul), for I am godly _and_ faithful; O You my God, save Your servant, who trusts in You [believing in You and relying on You, confidently committing everything to You]. 















###### 3 







Be gracious _and_ merciful to me, O Lord, For to You I cry out all the day long. 















###### 4 







Make Your servant rejoice, For to You, O Lord, I lift up my soul [all that I am--in prayer]. 















###### 5 







For You, O Lord, are good, and ready to forgive [our sins, sending them away, completely letting them go forever and ever]; And abundant in lovingkindness _and_ overflowing in mercy to all those who call upon You. 















###### 6 







Hear, O LORD, my prayer; And listen attentively to the voice of my supplications (specific requests)! 















###### 7 







In the day of my trouble I will call upon You, For You will answer me. 















###### 8 







There is no one like You among the gods, O Lord, Nor are there any works [of wonder and majesty] like Yours. 















###### 9 







All nations whom You have made shall come and kneel down in worship before You, O Lord, And they shall glorify Your name. 















###### 10 







For You are great and do wondrous works! You alone are God. 















###### 11 







Teach me Your way, O LORD, I will walk _and_ live in Your truth; Direct my heart to fear Your name [with awe-inspired reverence and submissive wonder]. 















###### 12 







I will give thanks _and_ praise You, O Lord my God, with all my heart; And will glorify Your name forevermore. 















###### 13 







For great is Your lovingkindness _and_ graciousness toward me; And You have rescued my life from the depths of Sheol [from death]. 















###### 14 







O God, arrogant _and_ insolent men have risen up against me; A band of violent men have sought my life, And they have not set You before them. 















###### 15 







But You, O Lord, are a God [who protects and is] merciful and gracious, Slow to anger and abounding in lovingkindness and truth. 















###### 16 







Turn to me, and be gracious to me; Grant Your strength [Your might and the power to resist temptation] to Your servant, And save the son of Your handmaid. 















###### 17 







Show me a sign of [Your] goodwill, That those who hate me may see it and be ashamed, Because You, O LORD, helped and comforted me. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
