---
Aliases: [Psalms 83]
previous: ['Ps 82']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 84']
---
# Psalms 83

***
















###### 1 







Do not keep silent, O God; Do not hold Your peace or be still, O God. 















###### 2 







For behold, Your enemies are in tumult, And those who hate You have raised their heads [in hatred of You]. 















###### 3 







They concoct crafty schemes against Your people, And conspire together against Your hidden _and_ precious ones. 















###### 4 







They have said, "Come, and let us wipe them out as a nation; Let the name of Israel be remembered no more." 















###### 5 







For they have conspired together with one mind; Against You they make a covenant-- 















###### 6 







The tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites, Of Moab and the Hagrites, 















###### 7 







Gebal and Ammon and Amalek, Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre. 















###### 8 







Assyria also has joined with them; They have helped the children of Lot [the Ammonites and the Moabites] _and_ have been an arm [of strength] to them. Selah. 















###### 9 







Deal with them as [You did] with Midian, As with Sisera and Jabin at the brook of Kishon, 















###### 10 







Who were destroyed at En-dor, Who became like dung for the earth. 















###### 11 







Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb And all their princes like Zebah and Zalmunna, 















###### 12 







Who said, "Let us possess for ourselves The pastures of God." 















###### 13 







O my God, make them like [^a]whirling dust, Like chaff before the wind [worthless and without substance]. 















###### 14 







Like fire consumes the forest, And like the flame sets the mountains on fire, 















###### 15 







So pursue them with Your tempest And terrify them with [the violence of] Your storm. 















###### 16 







Fill their faces with shame _and_ disgrace, That they may [persistently] seek Your name, O LORD. 















###### 17 







Let them be ashamed and dismayed forever; Yes, let them be humiliated and perish, 















###### 18 







That they may know that You alone, whose name is the LORD, Are the Most High over all the earth. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 83:13 Or _tumbleweed_.
