---
Aliases: [Psalms 88]
previous: ['Ps 87']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 89']
---
# Psalms 88

***
















###### 1 







O LORD, the God of my salvation, I have cried out [for help] by day and in the night before You. 















###### 2 







Let my prayer come before You _and_ enter into Your presence; Incline Your ear to my cry! 















###### 3 







For my soul is full of troubles, And my life draws near the grave (Sheol, the place of the dead). 















###### 4 







I am counted among those who go down to the pit (grave); I am like a man who has no strength [a mere shadow], 















###### 5 







[^a]Cast away [from the living] _and_ abandoned among the dead, Like the slain who lie in a [nameless] grave, Whom You no longer remember, And they are cut off from Your hand. 















###### 6 







You have laid me in the lowest pit, In dark places, in the depths. 















###### 7 







Your wrath has rested heavily upon me, And You have afflicted me with all Your waves. Selah. 















###### 8 







You have put my friends far from me; You have made me an [^b]object of loathing to them. I am shut up and I cannot go out. 















###### 9 







My eye grows dim with sorrow. O LORD, I have called on You every day; I have spread out my hands to You [in prayer]. 















###### 10 







Will You perform wonders for the dead? Shall the departed spirits arise and praise You? Selah. 















###### 11 







Will Your lovingkindness be declared in the grave Or Your faithfulness in Abaddon (the underworld)? 















###### 12 







Will Your wonders be known in the darkness? And Your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness [where the dead forget and are forgotten]? 















###### 13 







But I have cried out to You, O LORD, for help; And in the morning my prayer will come to You. 















###### 14 







O LORD, why do You reject me? Why do You hide Your face from me? 















###### 15 







I was afflicted and close to death from my youth on; I suffer Your terrors; I am overcome. 















###### 16 







Your fierce wrath has swept over me; Your terrors have destroyed me. 















###### 17 







They have surrounded me like flood waters all day long; They have completely encompassed me. 















###### 18 







Lover and friend You have placed far from me; My familiar friends are in darkness. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 88:5 Lit _Set free_. The ancient rabbis understood this to mean that once a man is dead, he is free from all religious duties. [^b]: Psalm 88:8 Lit _abomination to them_.
