---
Aliases: [Psalms 98]
previous: ['Ps 97']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 99']
---
# Psalms 98

***
















###### 1 







O sing to the LORD a new song, For He has done marvelous _and_ wonderful things; His right hand and His holy arm have [^b]gained the victory for Him. 















###### 2 







The LORD has made known His salvation; He has [openly] revealed His righteousness in the sight of the nations. 















###### 3 







He has [graciously] remembered His lovingkindness and His faithfulness to the house of Israel; All the ends of the earth have witnessed the salvation of our God. 















###### 4 







Shout joyfully to the LORD, all the earth; Shout [in jubilation] and sing for joy and sing praises. 















###### 5 







Sing praises to the LORD with the lyre, With the lyre and the sound of melody. 















###### 6 







With trumpets and the sound of the horn Shout with joy before the King, the LORD. 















###### 7 







Let the sea thunder _and_ roar, and all the things it contains, The world and those who dwell in it. 















###### 8 







Let the rivers clap their hands; Let the mountains sing together for joy _and_ delight 















###### 9 







Before the LORD, for He is coming to judge the earth; He will judge the world with righteousness And the peoples with fairness. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 98:1 The ancient rabbis called this song “orphaned” because it is anonymous and has no description with the word “Psalm” (e.g. “A Psalm of Thanksgiving”). [^b]: Psalm 98:1 Or _accomplished salvation_.
