---
Aliases: [Psalms 99]
previous: ['Ps 98']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 100']
---
# Psalms 99

***
















###### 1 







The LORD reigns, let the peoples tremble [with submissive wonder]! He sits enthroned above the cherubim, let the earth shake! 















###### 2 







The LORD is great in Zion, And He is exalted _and_ magnified above all the peoples. 















###### 3 







Let them [reverently] praise Your great and awesome name; Holy is He. 















###### 4 







The strength of the King loves justice _and_ righteous judgment; You have established fairness; You have executed justice and righteousness in Jacob (Israel). 















###### 5 







Exalt the LORD our God And worship at His footstool; Holy is He. 















###### 6 







Moses and Aaron were among His priests, And Samuel was among those who called on His name; They called upon the LORD and He answered them. 















###### 7 







He spoke to them in the pillar of cloud; They kept His testimonies And the statutes that He gave them. 















###### 8 







You answered them, O LORD our God; You were a forgiving God to them, And yet an avenger of their _evil_ practices. 















###### 9 







Exalt the LORD our God And worship at His holy hill [Zion, the temple mount], For the LORD our God is holy. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
