---
Aliases: [Psalms 94]
previous: ['Ps 93']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 95']
---
# Psalms 94

***
















###### 1 







O LORD God, You to whom vengeance belongs, O God, You to whom vengeance belongs, shine forth [in judgment]! 















###### 2 







Rise up, O Judge of the earth; Give to the proud a fitting compensation. 















###### 3 







O LORD, how long will the wicked, How long will the wicked rejoice in triumph? 















###### 4 







They pour out _words_, speaking arrogant things; All who do evil boast proudly. 















###### 5 







They crush Your people, O LORD, And afflict _and_ abuse Your heritage. 















###### 6 







[^a]They kill the widow and the alien And murder the fatherless. 















###### 7 







Yet they say, "The LORD does not see, Nor does the God of Jacob (Israel) notice it." 















###### 8 







Consider thoughtfully, you senseless (stupid ones) among the people; And you [dull-minded] fools, when will you become wise _and_ understand? 















###### 9 







He who made the ear, does He not hear? He who formed the eye, does He not see? 















###### 10 







He who instructs the nations, Does He not rebuke _and_ punish, He who teaches man knowledge? 















###### 11 







The LORD knows the thoughts of man, That they are a mere breath (vain, empty, futile). 















###### 12 







Blessed [with wisdom and prosperity] is the man whom You discipline _and_ instruct, O LORD, And whom You teach from Your law, 















###### 13 







That You may grant him [power to calm himself and find] peace in the days of adversity, Until the pit is dug for the wicked _and_ ungodly. 















###### 14 







For the LORD will not abandon His people, Nor will He abandon His inheritance. 















###### 15 







For judgment will again be righteous, And all the upright in heart will follow it. 















###### 16 







Who will stand up for me against the evildoers? Who will take a stand for me against those who do wickedness? 















###### 17 







If the LORD had not been my help, I would soon have dwelt in [the land of] silence. 















###### 18 







If I say, "My foot has slipped," Your compassion _and_ lovingkindness, O LORD, will hold me up. 















###### 19 







When my anxious thoughts multiply within me, Your comforts delight me. 















###### 20 







Can a throne of destruction be allied with You, One which frames _and_ devises mischief by decree [under the sacred name of law]? 















###### 21 







They band themselves together against the life of the righteous And condemn the innocent to death. 















###### 22 







But the LORD has become my high tower _and_ defense, And my God the rock of my refuge. 















###### 23 







He has turned back their own wickedness upon them And will destroy them by means of their own evil; The LORD our God will wipe them out. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 94:6 Widows, resident aliens, and the fatherless were particularly vulnerable members of ancient society, since they often had little or no economic means. The wicked could easily take advantage of them. God in several Old Testament passages commanded Israel to care especially for these helpless members of society. See, for example, Deut 24:17-22; Ps 146:9; Is 1:17; Zech 7:9, 10.
