---
Aliases: [Psalms 91]
previous: ['Ps 90']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 92']
---
# Psalms 91

***
















###### 1 







He who [^a]dwells in the shelter of the Most High Will remain secure _and_ rest in the shadow of the Almighty [whose power no enemy can withstand]. 















###### 2 







I will say of the LORD, "He is my refuge and my fortress, My God, in whom I trust [with great confidence, and on whom I rely]!" 















###### 3 







For He will save you from the trap of the fowler, And from the deadly pestilence. 















###### 4 







He will cover you _and_ completely protect you with His pinions, And under His wings you will find refuge; His faithfulness is a shield and a wall. 















###### 5 







You will not be afraid of the terror of night, Nor of the arrow that flies by day, 















###### 6 







Nor of the pestilence that stalks in darkness, Nor of the destruction (sudden death) that lays waste at noon. 















###### 7 







A thousand may fall at your side And ten thousand at your right hand, But danger will not come near you. 















###### 8 







You will only [be a spectator as you] look on with your eyes And witness the [divine] repayment of the wicked [as you watch safely from the shelter of the Most High]. 















###### 9 







Because you have made the LORD, [who is] my refuge, Even the Most High, your dwelling place, 















###### 10 







No evil will befall you, Nor will any plague come near your tent. 















###### 11 







For He will command His angels in regard to you, To protect _and_ defend _and_ guard you in all your ways [of obedience and service]. 















###### 12 







They will lift you up in their hands, So that you do not [even] strike your foot against a stone. 















###### 13 







You will tread upon the lion and cobra; The young lion and the serpent you will trample underfoot. 















###### 14 







"Because he set his love on Me, therefore I will save him; I will set him [securely] on high, because he knows My name [he confidently trusts and relies on Me, knowing I will never abandon him, no, never]. 















###### 15 







"He will call upon Me, and I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble; I will rescue him and honor him. 















###### 16 







"With a long life I will satisfy him And I will let him see My salvation." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 91:1 The wonderful promises of this chapter are dependent upon one’s meeting the conditions stated in these first two verses (see Ex 15:26).
