---
Aliases: [Psalms 97]
previous: ['Ps 96']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 98']
---
# Psalms 97

***
















###### 1 







The LORD reigns, let the earth rejoice; Let the many islands _and_ coastlands be glad. 















###### 2 







Clouds and thick darkness surround Him [as at Sinai]; Righteousness and justice are the foundation of His throne. 















###### 3 







Fire goes before Him And burns up His adversaries on all sides. 















###### 4 







His lightnings have illuminated the world; The earth has seen and trembled. 















###### 5 







The mountains melted like wax at the presence of the LORD, At the presence of the Lord of the whole earth. 















###### 6 







The heavens declare His righteousness, And all the peoples see His glory _and_ brilliance. 















###### 7 







Let all those be [deeply] ashamed who serve carved images, Who boast in idols. Worship Him, all you gods! 















###### 8 







Zion heard this and was glad, And the daughters (cities) of Judah rejoiced [in relief] Because of Your judgments, O LORD. 















###### 9 







For You are the LORD Most High over all the earth; You are exalted far above all gods. 















###### 10 







You who love the LORD, hate evil; He protects the souls of His godly ones (believers), He rescues them from the hand of the wicked. 















###### 11 







Light is sown [like seed] for the righteous _and_ illuminates their path, And [irrepressible] joy [is spread] for the upright in heart [who delight in His favor and protection]. 















###### 12 







Rejoice in the LORD, you righteous ones [those whose moral and spiritual integrity places them in right standing with God], And praise _and_ give thanks at the remembrance of His holy name. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
