---
Aliases: [Psalms 96]
previous: ['Ps 95']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 97']
---
# Psalms 96

***
















###### 1 







O sing to the LORD a new song; Sing to the LORD, all the earth! 















###### 2 







Sing to the LORD, bless His name; Proclaim good news of His salvation from day to day. 















###### 3 







Declare His glory among the nations, His marvelous works _and_ wonderful deeds among all the peoples. 















###### 4 







For great is the LORD and greatly to be praised; He is to be feared above all gods. 















###### 5 







For all the gods of the peoples are [worthless, lifeless] idols, But the LORD made the heavens. 















###### 6 







Splendor and majesty are before Him; Strength and beauty are in His sanctuary. 















###### 7 







[^a]Ascribe to the LORD, O families of the peoples, Ascribe to the LORD glory and strength. 















###### 8 







Ascribe to the LORD the glory of His name; Bring an offering and come into His courts. 















###### 9 







Worship the LORD in the splendor of holiness; Tremble [in submissive wonder] before Him, all the earth. 















###### 10 







Say among the nations, "The LORD reigns; Indeed, the world is firmly _and_ securely established, it shall not be moved; He will judge _and_ rule the people with fairness." 















###### 11 







Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice; Let the sea roar, and all the things it contains; 















###### 12 







Let the field be exultant, and all that is in it. Then all the trees of the forest will sing for joy 















###### 13 







Before the LORD, for He is coming, For He is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness And the peoples in His faithfulness. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 96:7 Lit _Give_.
