---
Aliases: [Psalms 92]
previous: ['Ps 91']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 93']
---
# Psalms 92

***
















###### 1 







It is a good _and_ delightful thing to give thanks to the LORD, To sing praises to Your name, O Most High, 















###### 2 







To declare Your lovingkindness in the morning And Your faithfulness by night, 















###### 3 







With an instrument of ten strings and with the harp, With a solemn sound on the lyre. 















###### 4 







For You, O LORD, have made me glad by Your works; At the works of Your hands I joyfully sing. 















###### 5 







How great are Your works, O LORD! Your thoughts are very deep [beyond man's understanding]. 















###### 6 







A senseless man [in his crude and uncultivated state] knows nothing, Nor does a [self-righteous] fool understand this: 















###### 7 







That though the wicked sprout up like grass And all evildoers flourish, They will be destroyed forever. 















###### 8 







But You, LORD, are on high forever. 















###### 9 







For behold, Your enemies, O LORD, For behold, Your enemies will perish; All who do evil will be scattered. 















###### 10 







But my horn [my emblem of strength and power] You have exalted like that of a wild ox; I am anointed with fresh oil [for Your service]. 















###### 11 







My eye has looked on my foes; My ears hear of the evildoers who rise up against me. 















###### 12 







The righteous will flourish like the date palm [long-lived, upright and useful]; They will grow like a cedar in Lebanon [majestic and stable]. 















###### 13 







Planted in the house of the LORD, They will flourish in the courts of our God. 















###### 14 







[Growing in grace] they will still thrive _and_ bear fruit _and_ prosper in old age; They will flourish _and_ be [^a]vital and fresh [rich in trust and love and contentment]; 















###### 15 







[They are living memorials] to declare that the LORD is upright _and_ faithful [to His promises]; He is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in Him. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 92:14 Lit _fat and very green_.
