---
Aliases: [2 Kings 15]
previous: ['2 Kgs 14']
up: ['2 Kings']
next: ['2 Kgs 16']
---
# 2 Kings 15

***
















###### 1 







In the twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam [II] king of Israel, Azariah (Uzziah) the son of Amaziah king of Judah became king. 















###### 2 







He was sixteen years old when he became king, and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jecoliah of Jerusalem. 















###### 3 







He did right in the sight of the LORD, in accordance with all that his father Amaziah had done. 















###### 4 







Only [the altars on] the high places were not removed; the people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places [instead of worshiping God at the temple]. 















###### 5 







And the LORD struck (afflicted) the king, and he was a leper until the day of his death, and lived in a separate house. Jotham the king's son was in charge of the household, judging the people of the land. 















###### 6 







Now the rest of Azariah's acts, and everything that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? 















###### 7 







Azariah slept with his fathers [in death], and they buried him with his fathers in the City of David. His son Jotham became king in his place. ## Zechariah over Israel 















###### 8 







In the thirty-eighth year of Azariah king of Judah, Zechariah the son of Jeroboam [II] became king over Israel in Samaria for six months. 















###### 9 







He did evil in the sight of the LORD, just as his fathers had done; he did not turn from the sins of Jeroboam [I] the son of Nebat, who made Israel sin. 















###### 10 







But Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against Zechariah and struck and killed him in the presence of the people and reigned in his place. 















###### 11 







Now the rest of the acts of Zechariah, behold, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel. 















###### 12 







This is [the fulfillment of] the word of the LORD which He spoke to Jehu, saying, "Your sons (descendants) shall sit on the throne of Israel to the fourth generation." And so it came to pass. 















###### 13 







Shallum the son of Jabesh became king in the thirty-ninth year of Uzziah (Azariah) king of Judah, and he reigned one month in Samaria. 















###### 14 







For Menahem the son of Gadi went up from Tirzah and came to Samaria, and struck and killed Shallum the son of Jabesh in Samaria and became king in his place. 















###### 15 







The rest of Shallum's acts, and his conspiracy which he made, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel. 















###### 16 







Then Menahem struck [the town of] Tiphsah and all who were in it and its borders from Tirzah; [he attacked it] because they did not surrender _to him_; so he struck it and ripped up all [^a]the women there who were pregnant. ## Menahem over Israel 















###### 17 







In the thirty-ninth year of Azariah king of Judah, Menahem the son of Gadi became king over Israel, _and reigned_ ten years in Samaria. 















###### 18 







He did evil in the sight of the LORD; for all his days he did not turn from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin. 















###### 19 







Pul, [Tiglath-pileser III] king of Assyria, came against the land [of Israel], and Menahem gave Pul a thousand talents of silver [as a bribe], so that he might help him to strengthen his control of the kingdom. 















###### 20 







Menahem exacted the money from Israel, from all the wealthy, influential men, fifty shekels of silver from each man to give to the king of Assyria. So the king of Assyria turned back and did not stay there in the land. 















###### 21 







Now the rest of Menahem's acts, and everything that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel? 















###### 22 







And Menahem slept with his fathers [in death]; his son Pekahiah became king in his place. ## Pekahiah over Israel 















###### 23 







In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekahiah the son of Menahem became king over Israel, _and reigned_ two years in Samaria. 















###### 24 







He did evil in the sight of the LORD; he did not turn from the [idolatrous] sins of Jeroboam [I] the son of Nebat, who made Israel sin. 















###### 25 







But Pekah the son of Remaliah, his officer, conspired against Pekahiah and struck him in Samaria, in the citadel of the king's house, with Argob and Arieh; and with Pekah were fifty Gileadites. So he killed Pekahiah and became king in his place. 















###### 26 







Now the rest of the acts of Pekahiah, all that he did, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel. ## Pekah over Israel 















###### 27 







In the fifty-second year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekah the son of Remaliah became king over Israel, _and reigned_ twenty years in Samaria. 















###### 28 







He did evil in the sight of the LORD; he did not turn from the [idolatrous] sins of Jeroboam [I] the son of Nebat, who made Israel sin. 















###### 29 







In the days of Pekah king of Israel, Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria came and took Ijon, Abel-beth-maacah, Janoah, Kedesh, Hazor, Gilead, and Galilee, all the land of [the tribe of] Naphtali, and he carried the people captive to Assyria. 















###### 30 







Hoshea the son of Elah conspired against Pekah the son of Remaliah [of Israel]; he struck and killed him, and became king in his place in the twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah [king of Judah]. 















###### 31 







Now the rest of Pekah's acts, and everything that he did, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of Israel's Kings. ## Jotham over Judah 















###### 32 







In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah king of Israel, Jotham the son of Uzziah king of Judah became king. 















###### 33 







When he was twenty-five years old, he became king [over Judah], and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jerusha daughter of Zadok. 















###### 34 







He did what was right in the sight of the LORD, in accordance with everything that his father Uzziah had done. 















###### 35 







Only [the altars on] the high places were not removed; the people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places [rather than in the temple]. He built the upper gate of the house of the LORD. 















###### 36 







Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of Judah's Kings? 















###### 37 







In those days the LORD began sending Rezin the king of Aram (Syria) and [Israel's king] Pekah the son of Remaliah against Judah. 















###### 38 







Jotham slept with his fathers [in death], and was buried with them in the City of David his father (ancestor). Ahaz his son became king in his place. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Kings 15:16 This type of barbarous act was more common among the pagan rulers than the Hebrews. See 8:12.
