---
Aliases: [2 Kings 13]
previous: ['2 Kgs 12']
up: ['2 Kings']
next: ['2 Kgs 14']
---
# 2 Kings 13

***
















###### 1 







In the twenty-third year of Joash the son of Ahaziah, king of Judah, Jehoahaz the son of Jehu became king over Israel in Samaria, _and he reigned_ seventeen years. 















###### 2 







He did evil in the sight of the LORD, and followed the [idolatrous] sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel sin; he did not turn from them. 















###### 3 







So the anger of the LORD was kindled _and_ burned against Israel, and He handed them over time and again to Hazael the king of Aram (Syria), and of Ben-hadad the son of Hazael. 















###### 4 







But Jehoahaz sought the favor of the LORD, and the LORD listened to him; for He saw the oppression of Israel, how the king of Aram oppressed them. 















###### 5 







Then the LORD gave Israel a [^a]savior [to rescue them and give them peace], so that they escaped from under the hand of the Arameans; and the sons (descendants) of Israel lived in their tents as before. 















###### 6 







Yet they did not turn from the [idolatrous] sins of the [royal] house of Jeroboam, who made Israel sin; but walked in them. And the Asherah [set up by Ahab] also remained standing in Samaria [Israel's capital]. 















###### 7 







For he left to Jehoahaz [king of Israel] an army of no more than fifty horsemen, ten chariots, and 10,000 footmen, for the king of Aram (Ben-hadad) had destroyed them and made them like dust to be trampled. 















###### 8 







Now the rest of the acts of Jehoahaz, everything that he did and his might, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel? 















###### 9 







Jehoahaz slept with his fathers [in death], and they buried him in Samaria; Joash his son became king in his place. 















###### 10 







In the thirty-seventh year of Joash king of Judah, [^b]Jehoash (Joash) the son of Jehoahaz became king over Israel in Samaria, _and reigned_ sixteen years. 















###### 11 







He did evil in the sight of the LORD; he did not turn away from all the [idolatrous] sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel sin; but he walked in them. 















###### 12 







Now the rest of the acts of Joash, everything that he did, and his might with which he fought against Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel? 















###### 13 







Joash slept with his fathers [in death], and Jeroboam [II] sat on his throne. Joash was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel. ## Death of Elisha 















###### 14 







Now Elisha had become sick with the illness by which he would die. And Joash the king of Israel came down to him and wept over him and said, "O my father, my father, the chariot of Israel and its horsemen!" 















###### 15 







And Elisha said to him, "Take a bow and arrows." So he took a bow and arrows. 















###### 16 







Then he said to the king of Israel, "Put your hand on the bow." And he put his hand on it, and Elisha put his hands on the king's hands. 















###### 17 







And he said, "Open the window to the east," and he opened it. Then Elisha said, "Shoot!" And he shot. And Elisha said, "The Lord's arrow of victory, the arrow of victory over Aram (Syria); for you will strike the Arameans in Aphek until you have destroyed them." 















###### 18 







Then he said, "Take the arrows," and he took them. And Elisha said to the king of Israel, "Strike the ground," and he struck _it_ three times and stopped. 















###### 19 







So the man of God was angry with him and said, "You should have struck five or six times; then you would have struck down Aram until you had destroyed it. But now you shall strike Aram _only_ three times." 















###### 20 







Elisha died, and they buried him. Now marauding bands of Moabites would invade the land in the spring of the year. 















###### 21 







And it happened that as a man was being buried [on an open bier], they saw a marauding band [coming]; and they threw the man into Elisha's grave. But when the [body of the] man [was being let down and] touched the bones of Elisha he revived and stood up on his feet. 















###### 22 







Hazael the king of Aram oppressed Israel all the days of Jehoahaz. 















###### 23 







But the LORD was gracious to them and had compassion on them and turned toward them for the sake of [^c]His covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and He was unwilling to destroy them, and did not cast them from His presence until now. 















###### 24 







Hazael king of Aram (Syria) died; Ben-hadad his son became king in his place. 















###### 25 







Then Jehoash (Joash) the son of Jehoahaz recovered from Ben-hadad the son of Hazael the cities which he had taken from Jehoahaz his father by war. Three times Joash defeated Ben-hadad and recovered the cities of Israel. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Kings 13:5 Or _deliverer_. [^b]: 2 Kings 13:10 See note 12:1. [^c]: 2 Kings 13:23 Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob had been dead a thousand years, yet God’s covenant with them was undiminishingly effective.
