---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 19]
previous: ['2 Chr 18']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 20']
---
# 2 Chronicles 19

***


###### 1 
Then Jehoshaphat the king of Judah returned safely to his house in Jerusalem. 

###### 2 
And Jehu the son of Hanani the seer went out to meet him, and said to King Jehoshaphat, "Should you help the wicked and love those who hate the Lord? Therefore the wrath of the Lord _is_ upon you. 

###### 3 
Nevertheless good things are found in you, in that you have removed the [^a]wooden images from the land, and have prepared your heart to seek God." ## The Reforms of Jehoshaphat 

###### 4 
So Jehoshaphat dwelt at Jerusalem; and he went out again among the people from Beersheba to the mountains of Ephraim, and brought them back to the Lord God of their fathers. 

###### 5 
Then he set judges in the land throughout all the fortified cities of Judah, city by city, 

###### 6 
and said to the judges, "Take heed to what you are doing, for you do not judge for man but for the Lord, who _is_ with you [^b]in the judgment. 

###### 7 
Now therefore, let the fear of the Lord be upon you; take care and do _it,_ for _there is_ no iniquity with the Lord our God, no partiality, nor taking of bribes." 

###### 8 
Moreover in Jerusalem, for the judgment of the Lord and for controversies, Jehoshaphat appointed some of the Levites and priests, and some of the chief fathers of Israel, [^c]when they returned to Jerusalem. 

###### 9 
And he commanded them, saying, "Thus you shall act in the fear of the Lord, faithfully and with a loyal heart: 

###### 10 
Whatever case comes to you from your brethren who dwell in their cities, whether of bloodshed or offenses against law or commandment, against statutes or ordinances, you shall warn them, lest they trespass against the Lord and wrath come upon you and your brethren. Do this, and you will not be guilty. 

###### 11 
And take notice: Amariah the chief priest _is_ over you in all matters of the Lord; and Zebadiah the son of Ishmael, the ruler of the house of Judah, for all the king's matters; also the Levites _will be_ officials before you. Behave courageously, and the Lord will be with the good." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 19:3 Or _Asherim,_ Heb. _Asheroth_ [^b]: 2 Chronicles 19:6 Lit. _in the matter of the judgment_ [^c]: 2 Chronicles 19:8 LXX, Vg. _for the inhabitants of Jerusalem_
