---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 31]
previous: ['2 Chr 30']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 32']
---
# 2 Chronicles 31

***


###### 1 
Now when all this was finished, all Israel who were present went out to the cities of Judah and broke the _sacred_ pillars in pieces, cut down the wooden images, and threw down the [^a]high places and the altars--from all Judah, Benjamin, Ephraim, and Manasseh--until they had utterly destroyed them all. Then all the children of Israel returned to their own cities, every man to his possession. 

###### 2 
And Hezekiah appointed the divisions of the priests and the Levites according to their divisions, each man according to his service, the priests and Levites for burnt offerings and peace offerings, to serve, to give thanks, and to praise in the gates of the [^b]camp of the Lord. 

###### 3 
The king also _appointed_ a [^c]portion of his possessions[^d] for the burnt offerings: for the morning and evening burnt offerings, the burnt offerings for the Sabbaths and the New Moons and the set feasts, as _it is_ written in the Law of the Lord. 

###### 4 
Moreover he commanded the people who dwelt in Jerusalem to contribute support[^e] for the priests and the Levites, that they might devote themselves to the Law of the Lord. 

###### 5 
As soon as the commandment was circulated, the children of Israel brought in abundance the firstfruits of grain and wine, oil and honey, and of all the produce of the field; and they brought in abundantly the tithe of everything. 

###### 6 
And the children of Israel and Judah, who dwelt in the cities of Judah, brought the tithe of oxen and sheep; also the tithe of holy things which were consecrated to the Lord their God they laid in heaps. 

###### 7 
In the third month they began laying them in heaps, and they finished in the seventh month. 

###### 8 
And when Hezekiah and the leaders came and saw the heaps, they blessed the Lord and His people Israel. 

###### 9 
Then Hezekiah questioned the priests and the Levites concerning the heaps. 

###### 10 
And Azariah the chief priest, from the house of Zadok, answered him and said, "Since _the people_ began to bring the offerings into the house of the Lord, we have had enough to eat and have plenty left, for the Lord has blessed His people; and what is left _is_ this great abundance." 

###### 11 
Now Hezekiah commanded _them_ to prepare rooms[^f] in the house of the Lord, and they prepared them. 

###### 12 
Then they faithfully brought in the offerings, the tithes, and the dedicated things; Cononiah the Levite had charge of them, and Shimei his brother _was_ the next. 

###### 13 
Jehiel, Azaziah, Nahath, Asahel, Jerimoth, Jozabad, Eliel, Ismachiah, Mahath, and Benaiah _were_ overseers under the hand of Cononiah and Shimei his brother, at the commandment of Hezekiah the king and Azariah the ruler of the house of God. 

###### 14 
Kore the son of Imnah the Levite, the keeper of the East Gate, _was_ over the freewill offerings to God, to distribute the offerings of the Lord and the most holy things. 

###### 15 
And under him _were_ Eden, Miniamin, Jeshua, Shemaiah, Amariah, and Shecaniah, _his_ faithful assistants in the cities of the priests, to distribute allotments to their brethren by divisions, to the great as well as the small. 

###### 16 
Besides those males from three years old and up who were written in the genealogy, they distributed to everyone who entered the house of the Lord his daily portion for the work of his service, by his division, 

###### 17 
and to the priests who were written in the genealogy according to their father's house, and to the Levites from twenty years old and up according to their work, by their divisions, 

###### 18 
and to all who were written in the genealogy--their little ones and their wives, their sons and daughters, the whole company of them--for in their faithfulness they [^g]sanctified themselves in holiness. 

###### 19 
Also for the sons of Aaron the priests, _who were_ in the fields of the common-lands of their cities, in every single city, _there were_ men who were designated by name to distribute portions to all the males among the priests and to all who were listed by genealogies among the Levites. 

###### 20 
Thus Hezekiah did throughout all Judah, and he did what _was_ good and right and true before the Lord his God. 

###### 21 
And in every work that he began in the service of the house of God, in the law and in the commandment, to seek his God, he did _it_ with all his heart. So he prospered. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 31:1 Places for pagan worship [^b]: 2 Chronicles 31:2 Temple [^c]: 2 Chronicles 31:3 _share_ [^d]: 2 Chronicles 31:3 _property_ [^e]: 2 Chronicles 31:4 _the portion due_ [^f]: 2 Chronicles 31:11 _storerooms_ [^g]: 2 Chronicles 31:18 _consecrated_
