---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 27]
previous: ['2 Chr 26']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 28']
---
# 2 Chronicles 27

***


###### 1 
Jotham _was_ twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother's name _was_ [^a]Jerushah the daughter of Zadok. 

###### 2 
And he did _what was_ right in the sight of the Lord, according to all that his father Uzziah had done (although he did not enter the temple of the Lord). But still the people acted corruptly. 

###### 3 
He built the Upper Gate of the house of the Lord, and he built extensively on the wall of Ophel. 

###### 4 
Moreover he built cities in the mountains of Judah, and in the forests he built fortresses and towers. 

###### 5 
He also fought with the king of the Ammonites and defeated them. And the people of Ammon gave him in that year one hundred talents of silver, ten thousand kors of wheat, and ten thousand of barley. The people of Ammon paid this to him in the second and third years also. 

###### 6 
So Jotham became mighty, because he prepared his ways before the Lord his God. 

###### 7 
Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all his wars and his ways, indeed they _are_ written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah. 

###### 8 
He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. 

###### 9 
So Jotham [^b]rested with his fathers, and they buried him in the City of David. Then Ahaz his son reigned in his place. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 27:1 _Jerusha,_ [2 Kin. 15:33] [^b]: 2 Chronicles 27:9 Died and joined his ancestors
