---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 29]
previous: ['2 Chr 28']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 30']
---
# 2 Chronicles 29

***


###### 1 
Hezekiah became king _when he was_ twenty-five years old, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. His mother's name _was_ [^a]Abijah the daughter of Zechariah. 

###### 2 
And he did _what was_ right in the sight of the Lord, according to all that his father David had done. ## Hezekiah Cleanses the Temple 

###### 3 
In the first year of his reign, in the first month, he opened the doors of the house of the Lord and repaired them. 

###### 4 
Then he brought in the priests and the Levites, and gathered them in the East Square, 

###### 5 
and said to them: "Hear me, Levites! Now [^b]sanctify yourselves, sanctify the house of the Lord God of your fathers, and carry out the rubbish from the holy _place._ 

###### 6 
For our fathers have trespassed and done evil in the eyes of the Lord our God; they have forsaken Him, have turned their faces away from the [^c]dwelling place of the Lord, and turned _their_ backs _on Him._ 

###### 7 
They have also shut up the doors of the vestibule, put out the lamps, and have not burned incense or offered burnt offerings in the holy _place_ to the God of Israel. 

###### 8 
Therefore the wrath of the Lord fell upon Judah and Jerusalem, and He has given them up to trouble, to desolation, and to jeering, as you see with your eyes. 

###### 9 
For indeed, because of this our fathers have fallen by the sword; and our sons, our daughters, and our wives _are_ in captivity. 

###### 10 
"Now _it is_ in my heart to make a covenant with the Lord God of Israel, that His fierce wrath may turn away from us. 

###### 11 
My sons, do not be negligent now, for the Lord has chosen you to stand before Him, to serve Him, and that you should minister to Him and burn incense." 

###### 12 
Then these Levites arose: Mahath the son of Amasai and Joel the son of Azariah, of the sons of the Kohathites; of the sons of Merari, Kish the son of Abdi and Azariah the son of Jehallelel; of the Gershonites, Joah the son of Zimmah and Eden the son of Joah; 

###### 13 
of the sons of Elizaphan, Shimri and Jeiel; of the sons of Asaph, Zechariah and Mattaniah; 

###### 14 
of the sons of Heman, Jehiel and Shimei; and of the sons of Jeduthun, Shemaiah and Uzziel. 

###### 15 
And they gathered their brethren, sanctified[^d] themselves, and went according to the commandment of the king, at the words of the Lord, to cleanse the house of the Lord. 

###### 16 
Then the priests went into the inner part of the house of the Lord to cleanse _it,_ and brought out all the debris that they found in the temple of the Lord to the court of the house of the Lord. And the Levites took _it_ out and carried _it_ to the Brook Kidron. 

###### 17 
Now they began to [^e]sanctify on the first _day_ of the first month, and on the eighth day of the month they came to the vestibule of the Lord. So they sanctified the house of the Lord in eight days, and on the sixteenth day of the first month they finished. 

###### 18 
Then they went in to King Hezekiah and said, "We have cleansed all the house of the Lord, the altar of burnt offerings with all its articles, and the table of the showbread with all its articles. 

###### 19 
Moreover all the articles which King Ahaz in his reign had cast aside in his transgression we have prepared and [^f]sanctified; and there they _are,_ before the altar of the Lord." ## Hezekiah Restores Temple Worship 

###### 20 
Then King Hezekiah rose early, gathered the rulers of the city, and went up to the house of the Lord. 

###### 21 
And they brought seven bulls, seven rams, seven lambs, and seven male goats for a sin offering for the kingdom, for the sanctuary, and for Judah. Then he commanded the priests, the sons of Aaron, to offer _them_ on the altar of the Lord. 

###### 22 
So they killed the bulls, and the priests received the blood and sprinkled _it_ on the altar. Likewise they killed the rams and sprinkled the blood on the altar. They also killed the lambs and sprinkled the blood on the altar. 

###### 23 
Then they brought out the male goats _for_ the sin offering before the king and the assembly, and they laid their hands on them. 

###### 24 
And the priests killed them; and they presented their blood on the altar as a sin offering to make an atonement for all Israel, for the king commanded _that_ the burnt offering and the sin offering _be made_ for all Israel. 

###### 25 
And he stationed the Levites in the house of the Lord with cymbals, with stringed instruments, and with harps, according to the commandment of David, of Gad the king's seer, and of Nathan the prophet; for thus _was_ the commandment of the Lord by His prophets. 

###### 26 
The Levites stood with the instruments of David, and the priests with the trumpets. 

###### 27 
Then Hezekiah commanded _them_ to offer the burnt offering on the altar. And when the burnt offering began, the song of the Lord _also_ began, with the trumpets and with the instruments of David king of Israel. 

###### 28 
So all the assembly worshiped, the singers sang, and the trumpeters sounded; all _this continued_ until the burnt offering was finished. 

###### 29 
And when they had finished offering, the king and all who were present with him bowed and worshiped. 

###### 30 
Moreover King Hezekiah and the leaders commanded the Levites to sing praise to the Lord with the words of David and of Asaph the seer. So they sang praises with gladness, and they bowed their heads and worshiped. 

###### 31 
Then Hezekiah answered and said, "Now _that_ you have consecrated yourselves to the Lord, come near, and bring sacrifices and thank offerings into the house of the Lord." So the assembly brought in sacrifices and thank offerings, and as many as were of a willing heart _brought_ burnt offerings. 

###### 32 
And the number of the burnt offerings which the assembly brought was seventy bulls, one hundred rams, _and_ two hundred lambs; all these _were_ for a burnt offering to the Lord. 

###### 33 
The consecrated things _were_ six hundred bulls and three thousand sheep. 

###### 34 
But the priests were too few, so that they could not skin all the burnt offerings; therefore their brethren the Levites helped them until the work was ended and until the _other_ priests had [^g]sanctified themselves, for the Levites were more diligent in sanctifying themselves than the priests. 

###### 35 
Also the burnt offerings _were_ in abundance, with the fat of the peace offerings and _with_ the drink offerings for _every_ burnt offering. So the service of the house of the Lord was set in order. 

###### 36 
Then Hezekiah and all the people rejoiced that God had prepared the people, since the events took place so suddenly. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 29:1 _Abi,_ [2 Kin. 18:2] [^b]: 2 Chronicles 29:5 _consecrate_ [^c]: 2 Chronicles 29:6 Temple [^d]: 2 Chronicles 29:15 _consecrated_ [^e]: 2 Chronicles 29:17 _consecrate_ [^f]: 2 Chronicles 29:19 _consecrated_ [^g]: 2 Chronicles 29:34 _consecrated_
