---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 26]
previous: ['2 Chr 25']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 27']
---
# 2 Chronicles 26

***


###### 1 
Now all the people of Judah took [^a]Uzziah, who _was_ sixteen years old, and made him king instead of his father Amaziah. 

###### 2 
He built [^b]Elath and restored it to Judah, after the king rested with his fathers. 

###### 3 
Uzziah _was_ sixteen years old when he became king, and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jecholiah of Jerusalem. 

###### 4 
And he did _what was_ right in the sight of the Lord, according to all that his father Amaziah had done. 

###### 5 
He sought God in the days of Zechariah, who had understanding in the [^c]visions of God; and as long as he sought the Lord, God made him prosper. 

###### 6 
Now he went out and made war against the Philistines, and broke down the wall of Gath, the wall of Jabneh, and the wall of Ashdod; and he built cities _around_ Ashdod and among the Philistines. 

###### 7 
God helped him against the Philistines, against the Arabians who lived in Gur Baal, and against the Meunites. 

###### 8 
Also the Ammonites brought tribute to Uzziah. His fame spread as far as the entrance of Egypt, for he became exceedingly strong. 

###### 9 
And Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the Corner Gate, at the Valley Gate, and at the corner buttress of the wall; then he fortified them. 

###### 10 
Also he built towers in the desert. He dug many wells, for he had much livestock, both in the lowlands and in the plains; _he also had_ farmers and vinedressers in the mountains and in [^d]Carmel, for he loved the soil. 

###### 11 
Moreover Uzziah had an army of fighting men who went out to war by companies, according to the number on their roll as prepared by Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the officer, under the hand of Hananiah, _one_ of the king's captains. 

###### 12 
The total number of [^e]chief officers of the mighty men of valor _was_ two thousand six hundred. 

###### 13 
And under their authority _was_ an army of three hundred and seven thousand five hundred, that made war with mighty power, to help the king against the enemy. 

###### 14 
Then Uzziah prepared for them, for the entire army, shields, spears, helmets, body armor, bows, and slings _to cast_ stones. 

###### 15 
And he made devices in Jerusalem, invented by skillful men, to be on the towers and the corners, to shoot arrows and large stones. So his fame spread far and wide, for he was marvelously helped till he became strong. ## The Penalty for Uzziah's Pride 

###### 16 
But when he was strong his heart was lifted up, to _his_ destruction, for he transgressed against the Lord his God by entering the temple of the Lord to burn incense on the altar of incense. 

###### 17 
So Azariah the priest went in after him, and with him were eighty priests of the Lord--valiant men. 

###### 18 
And they withstood King Uzziah, and said to him, "_It_ _is_ not for you, Uzziah, to burn incense to the Lord, but for the priests, the sons of Aaron, who are consecrated to burn incense. Get out of the sanctuary, for you have trespassed! You _shall have_ no honor from the Lord God." 

###### 19 
Then Uzziah became furious; and he _had_ a censer in his hand to burn incense. And while he was angry with the priests, leprosy broke out on his forehead, before the priests in the house of the Lord, beside the incense altar. 

###### 20 
And Azariah the chief priest and all the priests looked at him, and there, on his forehead, he _was_ leprous; so they thrust him out of that place. Indeed he also hurried to get out, because the Lord had struck him. 

###### 21 
King Uzziah was a leper until the day of his death. He dwelt in an isolated house, because he was a leper; for he was cut off from the house of the Lord. Then Jotham his son _was_ over the king's house, judging the people of the land. 

###### 22 
Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah, from first to last, the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz wrote. 

###### 23 
So Uzziah [^f]rested with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the field of burial which _belonged_ to the kings, for they said, "He is a leper." Then Jotham his son reigned in his place. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 26:1 _Azariah,_ [2 Kin. 14:21ff.] [^b]: 2 Chronicles 26:2 Heb. _Eloth_ [^c]: 2 Chronicles 26:5 Heb. mss., LXX, Syr., Tg., Arab. _fear_ [^d]: 2 Chronicles 26:10 Or _the fertile fields_ [^e]: 2 Chronicles 26:12 Lit. _chief fathers_ [^f]: 2 Chronicles 26:23 Died and joined his ancestors
