---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 13]
previous: ['1 Chr 12']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 14']
---
# 1 Chronicles 13

***


###### 1 
Then David consulted with the captains of thousands and hundreds, _and_ with every leader. 

###### 2 
And David said to all the assembly of Israel, "If _it seems_ good to you, and if it is of the Lord our God, let us send out to our brethren everywhere _who are_ left in all the land of Israel, and with them to the priests and Levites _who are_ in their cities _and_ their common-lands, that they may gather together to us; 

###### 3 
and let us bring the ark of our God back to us, for we have not inquired at it since the days of Saul." 

###### 4 
Then all the assembly said that they would do so, for the thing was right in the eyes of all the people. 

###### 5 
So David gathered all Israel together, from Shihor in Egypt to as far as the entrance of Hamath, to bring the ark of God from Kirjath Jearim. 

###### 6 
And David and all Israel went up to Baalah,[^a] to Kirjath Jearim, which belonged to Judah, to bring up from there the ark of God the Lord, who dwells _between_ the cherubim, where _His_ name is proclaimed. 

###### 7 
So they [^b]carried the ark of God on a new cart from the house of Abinadab, and Uzza and Ahio drove the cart. 

###### 8 
Then David and all Israel played _music_ before God with all _their_ might, with [^c]singing, on harps, on stringed instruments, on tambourines, on cymbals, and with trumpets. 

###### 9 
And when they came to [^d]Chidon's threshing floor, Uzza put out his hand to hold the ark, for the oxen [^e]stumbled. 

###### 10 
Then the anger of the Lord was aroused against Uzza, and He struck him because he put his hand to the ark; and he died there before God. 

###### 11 
And David became angry because of the Lord's outbreak against Uzza; therefore that place is called [^f]Perez Uzza to this day. 

###### 12 
David was afraid of God that day, saying, "How can I bring the ark of God to me?" 

###### 13 
So David would not move the ark with him into the City of David, but took it aside into the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite. 

###### 14 
The ark of God remained with the family of Obed-Edom in his house three months. And the Lord blessed the house of Obed-Edom and all that he had. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 13:6 _Baale Judah,_ [2 Sam. 6:2] [^b]: 1 Chronicles 13:7 Lit. _caused the ark of God to ride_ [^c]: 1 Chronicles 13:8 _songs_ [^d]: 1 Chronicles 13:9 _Nachon,_ [2 Sam. 6:6] [^e]: 1 Chronicles 13:9 Or _let it go off_ [^f]: 1 Chronicles 13:11 Lit. _Outburst Against Uzza_
