---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 18]
previous: ['1 Chr 17']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 19']
---
# 1 Chronicles 18

***


###### 1 
After this it came to pass that David [^a]attacked the Philistines, subdued them, and took Gath and its towns from the hand of the Philistines. 

###### 2 
Then he [^b]defeated Moab, and the Moabites became David's servants, _and_ brought tribute. 

###### 3 
And David [^c]defeated [^d]Hadadezer king of Zobah _as far as_ Hamath, as he went to establish his power by the River Euphrates. 

###### 4 
David took from him one thousand chariots, [^e]seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand foot soldiers. Also David [^f]hamstrung all the chariot _horses,_ except that he spared enough of them for one hundred chariots. 

###### 5 
When the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David killed twenty-two thousand of the Syrians. 

###### 6 
Then David put _garrisons_ in Syria of Damascus; and the Syrians became David's servants, _and_ brought tribute. So the Lord preserved David wherever he went. 

###### 7 
And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem. 

###### 8 
Also from [^g]Tibhath and from [^h]Chun, cities of [^i]Hadadezer, David brought a large amount of bronze, with which Solomon made the bronze [^j]Sea, the pillars, and the articles of bronze. 

###### 9 
Now when [^k]Tou king of Hamath heard that David had [^l]defeated all the army of Hadadezer king of Zobah, 

###### 10 
he sent [^m]Hadoram his son to King David, to greet him and bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and [^n]defeated him (for Hadadezer had been at war with Tou); and _Hadoram brought with him_ all kinds of articles of gold, silver, and bronze. 

###### 11 
King David also dedicated these to the Lord, along with the silver and gold that he had brought from all _these_ nations--from Edom, from Moab, from the people of Ammon, from the Philistines, and from Amalek. 

###### 12 
Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah killed eighteen thousand [^o]Edomites in the Valley of Salt. 

###### 13 
He also put garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites became David's servants. And the Lord preserved David wherever he went. ## David's Administration 

###### 14 
So David reigned over all Israel, and administered judgment and justice to all his people. 

###### 15 
Joab the son of Zeruiah _was_ over the army; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud _was_ recorder; 

###### 16 
Zadok the son of Ahitub and [^p]Abimelech the son of Abiathar _were_ the priests; [^q]Shavsha _was_ the scribe; 

###### 17 
Benaiah the son of Jehoiada _was_ over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David's sons _were_ [^r]chief ministers at the king's side. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 18:1 Lit. _struck_ [^b]: 1 Chronicles 18:2 Lit. _struck_ [^c]: 1 Chronicles 18:3 Lit. _struck_ [^d]: 1 Chronicles 18:3 Heb. _Hadarezer_ [^e]: 1 Chronicles 18:4 _seven hundred,_ [2 Sam. 8:4] [^f]: 1 Chronicles 18:4 _crippled_ [^g]: 1 Chronicles 18:8 _Betah,_ [2 Sam. 8:8] [^h]: 1 Chronicles 18:8 _Berothai,_ [2 Sam. 8:8] [^i]: 1 Chronicles 18:8 Heb. _Hadarezer_ [^j]: 1 Chronicles 18:8 Great laver or basin [^k]: 1 Chronicles 18:9 _Toi,_ [2 Sam. 8:9], [10] [^l]: 1 Chronicles 18:9 Lit. _struck_ [^m]: 1 Chronicles 18:10 _Joram,_ [2 Sam. 8:10] [^n]: 1 Chronicles 18:10 Lit. _struck_ [^o]: 1 Chronicles 18:12 _Syrians,_ [2 Sam. 8:13] [^p]: 1 Chronicles 18:16 _Ahimelech,_ [2 Sam. 8:17] [^q]: 1 Chronicles 18:16 _Seraiah,_ [2 Sam. 8:17], or _Shisha,_ [1 Kin. 4:3] [^r]: 1 Chronicles 18:17 Lit. _at the hand of the king_
