---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 25]
previous: ['1 Chr 24']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 26']
---
# 1 Chronicles 25

***


###### 1 
Moreover David and the captains of the army separated for the service _some_ of the sons of Asaph, of Heman, and of Jeduthun, who _should_ prophesy with harps, stringed instruments, and cymbals. And the number of the skilled men performing their service was: 

###### 2 
Of the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, Joseph, Nethaniah, and [^a]Asharelah; the sons of Asaph _were_ [^b]under the direction of Asaph, who prophesied according to the order of the king. 

###### 3 
Of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, [^c]Zeri, Jeshaiah, [^d]_Shimei_, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, [^e]six, under the direction of their father Jeduthun, who prophesied with a harp to give thanks and to praise the Lord. 

###### 4 
Of Heman, the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, [^f]Uzziel, [^g]Shebuel, [^h]Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, Romamti-Ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, _and_ Mahazioth. 

###### 5 
All these _were_ the sons of Heman the king's seer in the words of God, to [^i]exalt his horn. For God gave Heman fourteen sons and three daughters. 

###### 6 
All these _were_ under the direction of their father for the music _in_ the house of the Lord, with cymbals, stringed instruments, and harps, for the service of the house of God. Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman _were_ under the authority of the king. 

###### 7 
So the number of them, with their brethren who were instructed in the songs of the Lord, all who were skillful, _was_ two hundred and eighty-eight. 

###### 8 
And they cast lots for their duty, the small as well as the great, the teacher with the student. 

###### 9 
Now the first lot for Asaph came out for Joseph; the second for Gedaliah, him with his brethren and sons, twelve; 

###### 10 
the third for Zaccur, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 11 
the fourth for [^j]Jizri, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 12 
the fifth for Nethaniah, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 13 
the sixth for Bukkiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 14 
the seventh for [^k]Jesharelah, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 15 
the eighth for Jeshaiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 16 
the ninth for Mattaniah, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 17 
the tenth for Shimei, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 18 
the eleventh for [^l]Azarel, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 19 
the twelfth for Hashabiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 20 
the thirteenth for [^m]Shubael, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 21 
the fourteenth for Mattithiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 22 
the fifteenth for [^n]Jeremoth, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 23 
the sixteenth for Hananiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 24 
the seventeenth for Joshbekashah, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 25 
the eighteenth for Hanani, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 26 
the nineteenth for Mallothi, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 27 
the twentieth for Eliathah, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 28 
the twenty-first for Hothir, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 29 
the twenty-second for Giddalti, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 30 
the twenty-third for Mahazioth, his sons and his brethren, twelve; 

###### 31 
the twenty-fourth for Romamti-Ezer, his sons and his brethren, twelve. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 25:2 _Jesharelah,_ v. [14] [^b]: 1 Chronicles 25:2 Lit. _at the hands of_ [^c]: 1 Chronicles 25:3 _Jizri,_ v. [11] [^d]: 1 Chronicles 25:3 So with one Heb. ms., LXX mss. [^e]: 1 Chronicles 25:3 Shimei is the sixth, v. [17] [^f]: 1 Chronicles 25:4 _Azarel,_ v. [18] [^g]: 1 Chronicles 25:4 _Shubael,_ v. [20] [^h]: 1 Chronicles 25:4 _Jeremoth,_ v. [22] [^i]: 1 Chronicles 25:5 Increase his power or influence [^j]: 1 Chronicles 25:11 _Zeri,_ v. [3] [^k]: 1 Chronicles 25:14 _Asharelah,_ v. [2] [^l]: 1 Chronicles 25:18 _Uzziel,_ v. [4] [^m]: 1 Chronicles 25:20 _Shebuel,_ v. [4] [^n]: 1 Chronicles 25:22 _Jerimoth,_ v. [4]
