---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 29]
previous: ['1 Chr 28']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
---
# 1 Chronicles 29

***


###### 1 
Furthermore King David said to all the assembly: "My son Solomon, whom alone God has chosen, _is_ young and inexperienced; and the work _is_ great, because the temple _is_ not for man but for the Lord God. 

###### 2 
Now for the house of my God I have prepared with all my might: gold for _things to be made of_ gold, silver for _things of_ silver, bronze for _things of_ bronze, iron for _things of_ iron, wood for _things of_ wood, onyx stones, _stones_ to be set, glistening stones of various colors, all kinds of precious stones, and marble slabs in abundance. 

###### 3 
Moreover, because I have set my affection on the house of my God, I have given to the house of my God, over and above all that I have prepared for the holy house, my own special treasure of gold and silver: 

###### 4 
three thousand talents of gold, of the gold of Ophir, and seven thousand talents of refined silver, to overlay the walls of the houses; 

###### 5 
the gold for _things of_ gold and the silver for _things of_ silver, and for all kinds of work _to be done_ by the hands of craftsmen. Who _then_ is willing to consecrate himself this day to the Lord?" 

###### 6 
Then the leaders of the fathers' _houses,_ leaders of the tribes of Israel, the captains of thousands and of hundreds, with the officers over the king's work, offered willingly. 

###### 7 
They gave for the work of the house of God five thousand talents and ten thousand darics of gold, ten thousand talents of silver, eighteen thousand talents of bronze, and one hundred thousand talents of iron. 

###### 8 
And whoever had _precious_ stones gave _them_ to the treasury of the house of the Lord, into the hand of Jehiel the Gershonite. 

###### 9 
Then the people rejoiced, for they had offered willingly, because with a loyal heart they had offered willingly to the Lord; and King David also rejoiced greatly. ## David's Praise to God 

###### 10 
Therefore David blessed the Lord before all the assembly; and David said: "Blessed are You, Lord God of Israel, our Father, forever and ever. 

###### 11 
Yours, O Lord, _is_ the greatness, The power and the glory, The victory and the majesty; For all _that is_ in heaven and in earth _is Yours;_ Yours _is_ the kingdom, O Lord, And You are exalted as head over all. 

###### 12 
Both riches and honor _come_ from You, And You reign over all. In Your hand _is_ power and might; In Your hand _it is_ to make great And to give strength to all. 

###### 13 
"Now therefore, our God, We thank You And praise Your glorious name. 

###### 14 
But who _am_ I, and who _are_ my people, That we should be able to offer so willingly as this? For all things _come_ from You, And of Your own we have given You. 

###### 15 
For we _are_ aliens and pilgrims before You, As _were_ all our fathers; Our days on earth _are_ as a shadow, And without hope. 

###### 16 
"O Lord our God, all this abundance that we have prepared to build You a house for Your holy name is from Your hand, and _is_ all Your own. 

###### 17 
I know also, my God, that You test the heart and have pleasure in uprightness. As for me, in the uprightness of my heart I have willingly offered all these _things;_ and now with joy I have seen Your people, who are present here to offer willingly to You. 

###### 18 
O Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, our fathers, keep this forever in the intent of the thoughts of the heart of Your people, and fix their heart toward You. 

###### 19 
And give my son Solomon a loyal heart to keep Your commandments and Your testimonies and Your statutes, to do all _these things,_ and to build the temple for which I have made provision." 

###### 20 
Then David said to all the assembly, "Now bless the Lord your God." So all the assembly blessed the Lord God of their fathers, and bowed their heads and prostrated themselves before the Lord and the king. ## Solomon Anointed King 

###### 21 
And they made sacrifices to the Lord and offered burnt offerings to the Lord on the next day: a thousand bulls, a thousand rams, a thousand lambs, with their drink offerings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel. 

###### 22 
So they ate and drank before the Lord with great gladness on that day. And they made Solomon the son of David king the second time, and anointed _him_ before the Lord _to be_ the leader, and Zadok _to be_ priest. 

###### 23 
Then Solomon sat on the throne of the Lord as king instead of David his father, and prospered; and all Israel obeyed him. 

###### 24 
All the leaders and the mighty men, and also all the sons of King David, submitted themselves to King Solomon. 

###### 25 
So the Lord exalted Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all Israel, and bestowed on him _such_ royal majesty as had not been on any king before him in Israel. ## The Close of David's Reign 

###### 26 
Thus David the son of Jesse reigned over all Israel. 

###### 27 
And the period that he reigned over Israel _was_ forty years; seven years he reigned in Hebron, and thirty-three _years_ he reigned in Jerusalem. 

###### 28 
So he died in a good old age, full of days and riches and honor; and Solomon his son reigned in his place. 

###### 29 
Now the acts of King David, first and last, indeed they _are_ written in the book of Samuel the seer, in the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the book of Gad the seer, 

###### 30 
with all his reign and his might, and the events that happened to him, to Israel, and to all the kingdoms of the lands.
