---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 27]
previous: ['1 Chr 26']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 28']
---
# 1 Chronicles 27

***


###### 1 
And the children of Israel, according to their number, the heads of fathers' _houses,_ the captains of thousands and hundreds and their officers, served the king in every matter of the _military_ divisions. _These divisions_ came in and went out month by month throughout all the months of the year, each division _having_ twenty-four thousand. 

###### 2 
Over the first division for the first month _was_ Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel, and in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand; 

###### 3 
_he was_ of the children of Perez, and the chief of all the captains of the army for the first month. 

###### 4 
Over the division of the second month _was_ [^a]Dodai an Ahohite, and of his division Mikloth also _was_ the leader; in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 

###### 5 
The third captain of the army for the third month _was_ Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada the priest, who was chief; in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 

###### 6 
This was the Benaiah _who was_ mighty _among_ the thirty, and was over the thirty; in his division _was_ Ammizabad his son. 

###### 7 
The fourth _captain_ for the fourth month _was_ Asahel the brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him; in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 

###### 8 
The fifth captain for the fifth month _was_ [^b]Shamhuth the Izrahite; in his division were twenty-four thousand. 

###### 9 
The sixth _captain_ for the sixth month _was_ Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite; in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 

###### 10 
The seventh _captain_ for the seventh month _was_ Helez the Pelonite, of the children of Ephraim; in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 

###### 11 
The eighth _captain_ for the eighth month _was_ Sibbechai the Hushathite, of the Zarhites; in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 

###### 12 
The ninth _captain_ for the ninth month _was_ Abiezer the Anathothite, of the Benjamites; in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 

###### 13 
The tenth _captain_ for the tenth month _was_ Maharai the Netophathite, of the Zarhites; in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 

###### 14 
The eleventh _captain_ for the eleventh month _was_ Benaiah the Pirathonite, of the children of Ephraim; in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 

###### 15 
The twelfth _captain_ for the twelfth month _was_ [^c]Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel; in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. ## Leaders of Tribes 

###### 16 
Furthermore, over the tribes of Israel: the officer over the Reubenites _was_ Eliezer the son of Zichri; over the Simeonites, Shephatiah the son of Maachah; 

###### 17 
_over_ the Levites, Hashabiah the son of Kemuel; over the Aaronites, Zadok; 

###### 18 
_over_ Judah, Elihu, _one_ of David's brothers; _over_ Issachar, Omri the son of Michael; 

###### 19 
_over_ Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah; _over_ Naphtali, Jerimoth the son of Azriel; 

###### 20 
_over_ the children of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Azaziah; _over_ the half-tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah; 

###### 21 
_over_ the half-_tribe_ of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah; _over_ Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner; 

###### 22 
_over_ Dan, Azarel the son of Jeroham. These _were_ the leaders of the tribes of Israel. 

###### 23 
But David did not take the number of those twenty years old and under, because the Lord had said He would multiply Israel like the stars of the heavens. 

###### 24 
Joab the son of Zeruiah began a census, but he did not finish, for wrath came upon Israel because of this census; nor was the number recorded in the account of the chronicles of King David. ## Other State Officials 

###### 25 
And Azmaveth the son of Adiel _was_ over the king's treasuries; and Jehonathan the son of Uzziah was over the storehouses in the field, in the cities, in the villages, and in the fortresses. 

###### 26 
Ezri the son of Chelub was over those who did the work of the field for tilling the ground. 

###### 27 
And Shimei the Ramathite _was_ over the vineyards, and Zabdi the Shiphmite was over the produce of the vineyards for the supply of wine. 

###### 28 
Baal-Hanan the Gederite was over the olive trees and the sycamore trees that _were_ in the lowlands, and Joash _was_ over the store of oil. 

###### 29 
And Shitrai the Sharonite _was_ over the herds that fed in Sharon, and Shaphat the son of Adlai was over the herds _that were_ in the valleys. 

###### 30 
Obil the Ishmaelite _was_ over the camels, Jehdeiah the Meronothite _was_ over the donkeys, 

###### 31 
and Jaziz the Hagrite _was_ over the flocks. All these _were_ the officials over King David's property. 

###### 32 
Also Jehonathan, David's uncle, _was_ a counselor, a wise man, and a [^d]scribe; and Jehiel the [^e]son of Hachmoni _was_ with the king's sons. 

###### 33 
Ahithophel _was_ the king's counselor, and Hushai the Archite _was_ the king's companion. 

###### 34 
After Ahithophel _was_ Jehoiada the son of Benaiah, then Abiathar. And the general of the king's army _was_ Joab.
