---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 24]
previous: ['1 Chr 23']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 25']
---
# 1 Chronicles 24

***
















###### 1 







The divisions of the [^a]descendants of Aaron _were these_: the sons of Aaron were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 















###### 2 







But Nadab and Abihu died before their father and had no sons; therefore Eleazar and Ithamar served as priests. 















###### 3 







David, with Zadok of the sons of Eleazar and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, divided them according to their offices for their _assigned_ duties. 















###### 4 







Since there were more chief men found among the descendants of Eleazar than among the descendants of Ithamar [because of Eli's misfortunes, and Saul's massacre of the priests at Nob], they were divided in this way: sixteen heads of fathers' households of the descendants of Eleazar and eight of the descendants of Ithamar, corresponding to their fathers' households. 















###### 5 







So they were divided by lot, one group with the other; for they were officers of the sanctuary and officers (high priests) of God, both from the descendants of Eleazar and from the descendants of Ithamar. 















###### 6 







Shemaiah, the son of Nethanel the scribe, from the Levites, recorded them in the presence of the king, the officers, Zadok the priest, [^b]Ahimelech the son of Abiathar [the priest who escaped Saul's massacre at Nob], and the heads of the fathers' _households_ of the priests and of the Levites; one father's household taken for Eleazar and one taken for Ithamar. 















###### 7 







The lots fell, the first one to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah, 















###### 8 







the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim, 















###### 9 







the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin, 















###### 10 







the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah, 















###### 11 







the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah, 















###### 12 







the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim, 















###### 13 







the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab, 















###### 14 







the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer, 















###### 15 







the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Happizzez, 















###### 16 







the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezkel, 















###### 17 







the twenty-first to Jachin, the twenty-second to Gamul, 















###### 18 







the twenty-third to Delaiah, the twenty-fourth to Maaziah. 















###### 19 







These were their offices _and_ positions for their service in the house of the LORD according to the ordinance given to them by their father (ancestor) Aaron, just as the LORD God of Israel had commanded him. 















###### 20 







Now as for the rest of the sons of Levi: of the sons of Amram: Shubael; of the sons of Shubael: Jehdeiah. 















###### 21 







Of Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah: Isshiah the first. 















###### 22 







Of the Izharites: Shelomoth; of the sons of Shelomoth, Jahath. 















###### 23 







The sons _of Hebron_: Jeriah _the first_, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth. 















###### 24 







Of the sons of Uzziel, Micah; of the sons of Micah, Shamir. 















###### 25 







The brother of Micah, Isshiah; of the sons of Isshiah, Zechariah. 















###### 26 







The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi; the sons of Jaaziah, Beno. 















###### 27 







The sons of Merari: by Jaaziah were Beno, Shoham, Zaccur, and Ibri. 















###### 28 







By Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons. 















###### 29 







By Kish: the sons of Kish, Jerahmeel. 















###### 30 







The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of the Levites according to their fathers' households. 















###### 31 







These also cast lots as did their relatives the sons of Aaron in the presence of David the king, Zadok, Ahimelech, and the heads of the fathers' _households_ of the priests and of the Levites--the head of father's _households_ as well as those of his younger brother. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 24:1 Lit _sons_, and so throughout the context. [^b]: 1 Chronicles 24:6 See 1 Sam 22:14-23.
