---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 16]
previous: ['1 Chr 15']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 17']
---
# 1 Chronicles 16

***
















###### 1 







So they brought the ark of God and set it inside the tent which David had pitched for it, and they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before God. 















###### 2 







When David had finished offering the burnt offerings and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD. 















###### 3 







He distributed to everyone in Israel, both man and woman, to everyone a loaf of bread, a portion _of meat_, and a raisin cake. 















###### 4 







He appointed some of the Levites to minister before the ark of the LORD and to profess [God's name] and to [^a]thank and praise the LORD, the God of Israel: 















###### 5 







Asaph the chief, and second to him Zechariah, _then_ Jeiel (Jaaziel), Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-edom, and Jeiel with musical instruments, harps and lyres; also Asaph _played_ loud-sounding cymbals; 















###### 6 







and Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests _blew_ trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God. 















###### 7 







Then on that day David first entrusted to Asaph and his relatives to give thanks to the LORD [as their chief task]. ## Psalm of Thanksgiving 















###### 8 







O give thanks to the LORD, call on His name; Make His deeds known among the peoples. 















###### 9 







Sing to Him, sing praises to Him; Speak of all His wonders. 















###### 10 







Glory in His holy name; Let the hearts of those who seek the LORD rejoice. 















###### 11 







Seek the LORD and His strength; Seek His face continually [longing to be in His presence]. 















###### 12 







Remember [with gratitude] His marvelous deeds which He has done, His miracles and the judgments from His mouth, 















###### 13 







O seed of Israel His servant, [^b]Children of Jacob, His chosen ones! 















###### 14 







He is the LORD our God; His judgments are in all the earth. 















###### 15 







Be mindful of His covenant forever, The promise which He commanded _and_ established to a thousand generations, 















###### 16 







_The covenant_ which He made with Abraham, And His oath (sworn promise) to Isaac. 















###### 17 







He confirmed it as a statute to Jacob, And to Israel as an everlasting covenant, 















###### 18 







Saying, "To you I will give the land of Canaan, As the portion of your possession _and_ inheritance." 















###### 19 







When you were few in number, Even a very few, and strangers in it, 















###### 20 







When they wandered from nation to nation, And from _one_ kingdom to another people, 















###### 21 







He allowed no man to oppress _or_ exploit them, And, He reproved _and_ punished kings for their sakes, _saying_, 















###### 22 







"Do not touch My anointed ones, And do My prophets no harm." 















###### 23 







Sing to the LORD, all the earth; Proclaim the good news of His salvation from day to day. 















###### 24 







Declare His glory among the nations, His marvelous works among all peoples. 















###### 25 







For great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised; He is also to be feared [with awe-filled reverence] above all gods. 















###### 26 







For all the gods of the peoples are [lifeless] idols, But the LORD made the heavens. 















###### 27 







Splendor and majesty are [found] in His presence; Strength and joy are [found] in His place (sanctuary). 















###### 28 







Ascribe to the LORD, O families of the peoples, Ascribe to the LORD glory _and_ honor and strength. 















###### 29 







Ascribe to the LORD the glory _and_ honor due His name; Bring an offering [of thanksgiving], and come before Him; Worship the LORD in the splendor of holiness. 















###### 30 







Tremble [reverently] before Him, all the earth; The world is firmly established, it will not be moved. 















###### 31 







Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice; And let them say among the nations, "The LORD reigns." 















###### 32 







Let the sea roar, and all the things that fill it; Let the field rejoice, and all that is in it. 















###### 33 







Then the trees of the forest will sing for joy before the LORD; For He comes to judge _and_ govern the earth. 















###### 34 







O give thanks to the LORD, for _He is_ good; For His lovingkindness endures forever. 















###### 35 







Then say, "Save us, O God of our salvation; Gather us together and rescue us from the nations, That we may give thanks to Your holy name, And glory in Your praise." 















###### 36 







Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, Forever and ever. And all the people said, "Amen," and praised the LORD. ## Worship before the Ark 















###### 37 







So David left Asaph and his relatives there before the ark of the covenant of the LORD to minister before the ark continually, as each day's work required; 















###### 38 







and Obed-edom with his sixty-eight relatives; also Obed-edom the son of Jeduthun, and Hosah, were to be gatekeepers. 















###### 39 







_David left_ Zadok the priest and his relatives the priests before the dwelling place (tabernacle) of the LORD in the high place which was at Gibeon, 















###### 40 







to offer burnt offerings to the LORD on the altar of burnt offering continually, morning and evening, in accordance with all that is written in the Law of the LORD, which He commanded Israel. 















###### 41 







With them were Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest who were chosen and designated by name, to give thanks to the LORD, for His lovingkindness endures forever. 















###### 42 







With them were Heman and Jeduthun _with_ trumpets and cymbals for those who _were to_ sound aloud, and instruments for [accompanying] the songs of God. And the sons of Jeduthun were to be at the gate. 















###### 43 







Then all the people departed, each to his house, and David returned [home] to bless his household. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 16:4 Lit _praise_, a Hebrew word that is the root of the name “Judah.” [^b]: 1 Chronicles 16:13 Lit _sons_.
