---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 29]
previous: ['1 Chr 28']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
---
# 1 Chronicles 29

***
















###### 1 







And King David said to all the assembly, "My son Solomon, whom alone God has chosen, is still young and inexperienced and the work is great; for the [^a]temple is not for man but for the LORD God. 















###### 2 







So with all my ability I have provided for the house of my God the gold for the _things of_ gold, silver for the _things of_ silver, bronze for the _things of_ bronze, iron for the _things of_ iron, and wood for the _things of_ wood, _as well as_ onyx stones and stones to be inlaid, stones of antimony (a brittle, silvery-white metal) and stones of various colors, and all kinds of precious stones and alabaster in abundance. 















###### 3 







Moreover, because I delight in the house of my God, the [personal] treasure that I have of gold and silver, I give to the house of my God, in addition to all that I have already provided for the holy house: 















###### 4 







_namely_, 3,000 talents of gold from the gold of Ophir, and 7,000 talents of refined silver, to overlay the walls of the buildings; 















###### 5 







gold for the _things of_ gold, silver for the _things of_ silver, that is, for all the work to be done by craftsmen. Now who is willing to [^b]consecrate himself today to the LORD?" 















###### 6 







Then the rulers of the fathers' _households_, and leaders of the tribes of Israel, and the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, with the overseers of the king's work, offered willingly 















###### 7 







and gave for the service of the house of God: 5,000 talents and 10,000 darics of gold, and 10,000 talents of silver, and 18,000 talents of bronze, and 100,000 talents of iron. 















###### 8 







Whoever had _precious_ stones gave them to the treasury of the house of the LORD, in the care of Jehiel the Gershonite. 















###### 9 







Then the people rejoiced because they had given willingly, for with a whole _and_ blameless heart they had offered freely to the LORD. King David also rejoiced greatly. ## David's Prayer 















###### 10 







Therefore David blessed the LORD in the sight of all the assembly and said, "Blessed (praised, adored, and thanked) are You, O LORD God of Israel (Jacob) our father, forever and ever. 















###### 11 







Yours, O LORD, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty, indeed everything that is in the heavens and on the earth; Yours is the dominion _and_ kingdom, O LORD, and You exalt Yourself as head over all. 















###### 12 







Both riches and honor _come_ from You, and You rule over all. In Your hand is power and might; and it is in Your hands to make great and to give strength to everyone. 















###### 13 







Now therefore, our God, we thank You, and praise Your glorious name. 















###### 14 







"But who am I, and who are my people, that we should be able to offer as generously as this? For all things come from You, and from Your own hand we have given to You. 















###### 15 







For we are [^c]sojourners before You, and tenants, as all our fathers were; our days on the earth are like a shadow, and there is no hope [of remaining]. 















###### 16 







O LORD our God, all this abundance that we have prepared to build You a house for Your holy Name, it is from Your hand, and is all Your own. 















###### 17 







I know also, my God, that You test the heart and delight in uprightness _and_ integrity. In the uprightness of my heart I have willingly offered all these _things_. So now with joy I have seen Your people who are present here, make their offerings willingly _and_ freely to You. 















###### 18 







O LORD, God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, our fathers, keep forever such purposes _and_ thoughts in the minds of Your people, and direct their hearts toward You; 















###### 19 







and give to my son Solomon a perfect heart to keep Your commandments, Your testimonies, and Your statutes, and to do all [that is necessary] to build the temple [for You], for which I have made provision." 















###### 20 







Then David said to all the assembly, "Now bless (praise, thank) the LORD your God." And all the assembly blessed the LORD, the God of their fathers, and bowed down and honored the LORD and to the king [as His earthly representative]. ## Sacrifices 















###### 21 







The next day they offered sacrifices and burnt offerings to the LORD: 1,000 bulls, 1,000 rams, and 1,000 lambs, with their drink offerings (libations) and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel. 















###### 22 







They ate and drank that day before the LORD with great rejoicing. ## Solomon Again Made King They made Solomon the son of David king a second time, and anointed him as ruler for the LORD and Zadok as [high] priest. 















###### 23 







Then Solomon sat on the throne of the LORD as king in place of David his father; and he prospered, and all Israel obeyed him. 















###### 24 







All of the leaders and warriors, and also all the sons of King David, pledged allegiance to King Solomon. 















###### 25 







The LORD highly exalted Solomon in the sight of all Israel, and bestowed on him royal majesty which had not been on any king before him in Israel. 















###### 26 







Thus David the son of Jesse reigned over all Israel. 















###### 27 







The time that he reigned over Israel was forty years; he reigned seven years in Hebron and thirty-three years in Jerusalem. ## Death of David 















###### 28 







He died in a good old age [his seventy-first year], full of days (satisfied), riches and honor. Solomon his son reigned in his place. 















###### 29 







Now the acts of King David, from first to last, are written in the chronicles (records) of Samuel the seer, in the chronicles of Nathan the prophet, and in the chronicles of Gad the seer, 















###### 30 







with [accounts of] all his reign, and his power, and the times _and_ circumstances which came on him, on Israel, and on all the kingdoms of the [surrounding] lands. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 29:1 Lit _palace_. [^b]: 1 Chronicles 29:5 Lit _fill his hand_. [^c]: 1 Chronicles 29:15 I.e. temporary residents, resident aliens.
