---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 28]
previous: ['1 Chr 27']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 29']
---
# 1 Chronicles 28

***
















###### 1 







David assembled at Jerusalem all the leaders (officials) of Israel, the leaders of the tribes, and the commanders of the divisions that served the king, and the commanders of thousands, and the commanders of hundreds, and the overseers of all the property and livestock of the king and his sons, with the palace officers and the mighty men, and all the brave warriors. 















###### 2 







Then David the king rose to his feet and said, "Hear me, my brothers [in arms] and my people. I had intended to build a permanent home for the ark of the covenant of the LORD and as a footstool for our God, and I prepared materials for the building. 















###### 3 







But God said to me, 'You shall not build a house for My Name (Presence), because you are a man of war and have shed blood.' 















###### 4 







However, the LORD, the God of Israel, chose me from all in my father's house to be king over Israel forever. For He has chosen Judah to be the leader; and in the house (tribe) of Judah he chose the house of my father; and among the sons of my father He was pleased to make me king over all Israel. 















###### 5 







Of all my sons **(**for the LORD has given me many sons**)** He has chosen my son Solomon to sit on the throne of the kingdom of the LORD over Israel. 















###### 6 







He said to me, 'Solomon your son shall build My house and My courts; for I have chosen him to be a son to Me, and I will be a father to him. 















###### 7 







[^a]I will establish his kingdom forever if he loyally _and_ continually obeys My commandments and My ordinances, as is done today.' 















###### 8 







Now therefore, in the sight of all Israel, the assembly of the LORD, and in the hearing of our God, observe and seek after all the commandments of the LORD your God so that you may possess the good land and leave it as an inheritance to your sons after you forever. 















###### 9 







"As for you, Solomon my son, know the God of your father [have personal knowledge of Him, be acquainted with, and understand Him; appreciate, heed, and cherish Him] and serve Him with a blameless heart and a willing mind; for the LORD searches all hearts _and_ minds, and understands every intent _and_ inclination of the thoughts. If you seek Him [inquiring for and of Him and requiring Him as your first and vital necessity] He will let you find Him; but [^b]if you abandon (turn away from) Him, He will reject you forever. 















###### 10 







Consider this carefully, for the LORD has chosen you to build a house for the sanctuary. Be courageous _and_ strong and do it." 















###### 11 







Then David gave to his son Solomon the plan for the porch _of the temple_, its buildings, its treasuries, its upper chambers, its inner rooms, and for the place for the [ark and its] mercy seat; 















###### 12 







and the plan of all that he had in [^c]mind, for the courts of the house of the LORD, and for all the surrounding rooms, for the storerooms of the house of God and for the storerooms for the dedicated gifts _and_ offerings; 















###### 13 







_the plan_ for the divisions of the priests and the Levites and for all the work of the service in the house of the LORD and for all the utensils for service in the house of the LORD; 















###### 14 







for the golden _utensils_, the weight of gold and silver for all the gold and silver articles for every kind of service; 















###### 15 







and the weight _of gold_ for the golden lampstands and their golden lamps, with the weight of each lampstand and its lamps; and the _weight of silver_ for the silver lampstands, with the weight of each lampstand and its lamps according to the use of each lampstand; 















###### 16 







the gold by weight for each table of showbread, and the silver for the tables of silver; 















###### 17 







and the forks, the basins, and the pitchers of pure gold; and for the golden bowls with the weight for each bowl; and for the silver bowls with the weight for each bowl; 















###### 18 







and for the altar of incense refined gold by weight; and gold for the model of the chariot of the cherubim that spread _their wings_ and covered the ark of the Lord's covenant. 















###### 19 







"All _this," said David_, "the LORD made me understand in writing by His hand upon me, all the work _and_ details [to be done] according to this plan." 















###### 20 







Then David said to his son Solomon, "Be strong and courageous, and take action; do not fear nor be dismayed, for the LORD God, my God, is with you. He will not fail you nor [^d]abandon you [but will guide you in the construction] until you have finished all the work for the service of the house of the LORD. 















###### 21 







And see, [you have] the divisions of the priests and Levites for all the service of God's house, and every willing, skillful man will be with you in all the kinds of work for any kind of service. Also the officers and all the people will be entirely at your command." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 28:7 See note 17:14. [^b]: 1 Chronicles 28:9 In 1 Chr 28:7 God promises to establish Solomon’s kingdom forever; however, in 1 Kin 11:9-11 God becomes angry with Solomon for his degenerate conduct and tolerance of paganism and declares that the kingdom will be torn from him. By disregarding God’s word Solomon nullified his covenant with God. His wisdom was overcome by his love of power, his lack of ethics, his arrogance, his personal aggrandizement, and his distorted sense of privilege. [^c]: 1 Chronicles 28:12 Lit _the spirit with him_. [^d]: 1 Chronicles 28:20 Lit _forsake_.
