---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 18]
previous: ['1 Chr 17']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 19']
---
# 1 Chronicles 18

***
















###### 1 







After this it came about that David defeated and subdued the Philistines, and he took Gath and its villages out of the hand of the Philistines. 















###### 2 







He defeated Moab, and the Moabites became David's servants and brought tribute (gifts). 















###### 3 







David also defeated Hadadezer king of Zobah _as far as_ Hamath, as he went to establish his [^a]dominion to the Euphrates River. 















###### 4 







David took from him 1,000 chariots, 7,000 horsemen, and 20,000 foot soldiers (infantrymen). David also [^b]hamstrung [nearly] all the chariot horses [to make them lame and useless], but left enough of them for 100 chariots. 















###### 5 







When the Arameans (Syrians) of [^c]Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David killed 22,000 of the Arameans. 















###### 6 







Then David put _military outposts_ among the Arameans in Damascus; and the Arameans became David's servants and brought tribute. Thus the LORD helped David wherever he went. 















###### 7 







David took the shields of gold which were carried by the servants of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem. 















###### 8 







Likewise from Tibhath and from Cun, cities of Hadadezer, David brought a very large amount of bronze, with which Solomon later made the bronze Sea (large basin), the pillars, and the utensils of bronze. 















###### 9 







When Tou king of Hamath heard how David had defeated all the army of Hadadezer king of Zobah, 















###### 10 







he sent Hadoram his son to King David to greet him and to bless (congratulate) him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and had defeated him; for Hadadezer had been at war with Tou. And _Hadoram brought_ all kinds of articles of gold and silver and bronze. 















###### 11 







King David also dedicated these to the LORD [setting them apart for sacred use], with the silver and the gold which he brought from all the nations: from Edom, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines, and from Amalek. 















###### 12 







Also Abishai the son of Zeruiah [David's half sister] defeated 18,000 Edomites in the Valley of Salt. 















###### 13 







He put military outposts in Edom, and all the Edomites became David's servants. Thus the LORD helped David wherever he went. 















###### 14 







So David reigned over all Israel and administered justice and righteousness for all his people. 















###### 15 







Joab the son of Zeruiah was in command of the army, and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was the recorder; 















###### 16 







Zadok the son of Ahitub and Abimelech the son of Abiathar were the priests, and Shavsha was secretary (state scribe); 















###### 17 







and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was in charge of the [^d]Cherethites and the Pelethites [David's bodyguards], and the sons of David were chiefs at the king's side. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 18:3 Lit _hand_. [^b]: 1 Chronicles 18:4 I.e. cut the tendon between the hoof and fetlock. [^c]: 1 Chronicles 18:5 Heb _Darmeseq_. [^d]: 1 Chronicles 18:17 These men were apparently foreign, professional soldiers who were hired to protect the king.
