---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 25]
previous: ['1 Chr 24']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 26']
---
# 1 Chronicles 25

***
















###### 1 







Moreover, David and the commanders of the army selected for the [temple] service some of the sons of Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun, who were to [^a]prophesy with lyres, harps, and cymbals. The list of the musicians who performed their service was _as follows_: 















###### 2 







Of the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, Joseph, Nethaniah, and Asharelah; the sons of Asaph were under the direction of Asaph, who prophesied [^b]under the [^c]direction of the king. 















###### 3 







Of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Shimei, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the direction of their father Jeduthun, who prophesied with the lyre in thanksgiving and praise to the LORD. 















###### 4 







Of Heman, the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, Romamti-ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, and Mahazioth. 















###### 5 







All these [men] were the sons of Heman the king's seer to [^d]exalt him in accordance with the words of God; for God gave Heman fourteen sons and three daughters. 















###### 6 







All these were under the direction of their father to sing in the house of the LORD, with cymbals, harps, and lyres, for the service of the house of God. Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman were under the order _and_ direction of the king. 















###### 7 







So their number [who led the remainder of the 4,000], with their relatives who were trained in singing to the LORD, all who were skillful, was 288. ## Divisions of Musicians 















###### 8 







The musicians cast lots for their duties, everyone alike, the small (younger) as well as the great (older), the teacher _as well_ as the student. 















###### 9 







The first lot for Asaph fell to Joseph; the second to Gedaliah, to him, his relatives and his sons, twelve; 















###### 10 







the third to Zaccur, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 11 







the fourth to Izri, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 12 







the fifth to Nethaniah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 13 







the sixth to Bukkiah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 14 







the seventh to Jesharelah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 15 







the eighth to Jeshaiah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 16 







the ninth to Mattaniah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 17 







the tenth to Shimei, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 18 







the eleventh to Azarel, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 19 







the twelfth to Hashabiah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 20 







the thirteenth to Shubael, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 21 







the fourteenth to Mattithiah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 22 







the fifteenth to Jeremoth, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 23 







the sixteenth to Hananiah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 24 







the seventeenth of Joshbekashah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 25 







the eighteenth to Hanani, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 26 







the nineteenth to Mallothi, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 27 







the twentieth to Eliathah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 28 







the twenty-first to Hothir, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 29 







the twenty-second to Giddalti, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 30 







the twenty-third to Mahazioth, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 















###### 31 







the twenty-fourth to Romamti-ezer, his sons and his relatives, twelve. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 25:1 This was probably a form of praise and worship designed to declare God’s character and His truths with music and lyrics. [^b]: 1 Chronicles 25:2 Control over prophecy is later affirmed by Paul (1 Cor 14:32); i.e. a prophet is not overcome by the Spirit to the point that he cannot control his actions. He can, for example, refrain from speaking, and in this case Asaph did not prophesy until ordered or given permission to do so by the king. [^c]: 1 Chronicles 25:2 Lit _hand_. [^d]: 1 Chronicles 25:5 Lit _lift up the horn_.
