---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 20]
previous: ['1 Chr 19']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 21']
---
# 1 Chronicles 20

***
















###### 1 







Then it happened at the end of the year, [^a]at the time when kings go out _to battle_, Joab led out the army and ravaged _and_ devastated the land of the Ammonites, and came and besieged Rabbah. But David stayed at Jerusalem [with Bathsheba]. Joab struck Rabbah and overthrew it. 















###### 2 







David took the crown of their king from his head and found that it [^b]weighed a talent of gold and that there was a precious stone in it; so it was set on David's head. He also brought a very great amount of spoil (plunder) out of the city [of Rabbah]. 















###### 3 







He brought out the people who were in it, and [^c]put them [to work] with saws, iron picks, and axes. David dealt _in this way_ with all the Ammonite cities. Then David and all the people returned to Jerusalem. 















###### 4 







Now it came about after this that war broke out at Gezer with the Philistines; then Sibbecai the Hushathite killed Sippai, one of the descendants of the [^d]giants, and they were subdued. 















###### 5 







There was war again with the Philistines, and Elhanan the son of Jair killed Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, the shaft of whose spear was like a weaver's beam. 















###### 6 







Again there was war at Gath, where there was a man of _great_ stature who had twenty-four fingers and toes, six _fingers on each hand_ and six _toes on each foot_; and he also was descended from the giants. 















###### 7 







When he taunted Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimea, David's brother, killed him. 















###### 8 







These were descended from the giants in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 20:1 I.e. after the spring harvest. [^b]: 1 Chronicles 20:2 A crown of this weight would have been practical only for ceremonial display. [^c]: 1 Chronicles 20:3 MT reads _cut with saws_, but the parallel passage (2 Sam 12:31) reads _put them to [work with] the saws_, which can mean “put to work.” Due to the brutality implied by the reading _cut_, most expositors prefer to reject it as an early scribal error for _put_, which is possible because the two Hebrew verb forms closely resemble each other. If the MT reading is in fact an error, it may have escaped detection due to its juxtaposition with _saws_. [^d]: 1 Chronicles 20:4 Heb _Rephaim_, and so in vv 6, 8.
