---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 26]
previous: ['1 Chr 25']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 27']
---
# 1 Chronicles 26

***
















###### 1 







For the divisions of the gatekeepers: Of the Korahites: Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph. 















###### 2 







Meshelemiah had sons: Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth, 















###### 3 







Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Eliehoenai the seventh. 















###### 4 







Obed-edom had sons: Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, Sacar the fourth, Nethanel the fifth, 















###### 5 







Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peullethai the eighth; for God had blessed him. 















###### 6 







Also to his son Shemaiah sons were born who ruled over the house of their father, for they were courageous men of ability. 















###### 7 







The sons of Shemaiah: Othni, Rephael, Obed, and Elzabad, whose brothers were courageous _and_ able men, Elihu and Semachiah. 















###### 8 







All these were sons of Obed-edom [in whose house the ark was kept], they and their sons and relatives, strong _and_ able men for the service--sixty-two from Obed-edom. 















###### 9 







Meshelemiah had sons and relatives, eighteen courageous men. 















###### 10 







Also Hosah, one of the sons of Merari, had sons: Shimri the first _and_ chief **(**although he was not the firstborn, his father made him first**)**, 















###### 11 







Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth; the sons and relatives of Hosah were thirteen in all. 















###### 12 







To these divisions of the gatekeepers, the chief men, _were given_ duties, like their relatives, to minister in the house of the LORD. 















###### 13 







They cast lots, the small (younger) and great (older) alike, in accordance with their fathers' households, for every gate. 















###### 14 







The lot for the east [gates] fell to Shelemiah. They cast lots also for his son Zechariah, a wise counselor, and his lot came out for the north [gates]. 















###### 15 







To Obed-edom [it came out] for the south [gates], and the storehouse _was allotted_ to his sons. 















###### 16 







To Shuppim and Hosah [the lot fell] for the west [gates], by the gate of Shallecheth, on the ascending highway, division by division. 















###### 17 







On the east were six Levites, on the north four a day, on the south four a day, and two by two at the storehouse. 















###### 18 







At the [^a]colonnade on the west side [of the outer court of the temple] _there were_ four at the road and two at the colonnade. 















###### 19 







These were the divisions of the gatekeepers among the Korahites and the sons of Merari. ## Keepers of the Treasure 















###### 20 







Of the Levites, Ahijah was in charge of the treasuries of the house of God and the treasuries of the dedicated gifts. 















###### 21 







The sons of Ladan, the sons of the Gershonites belonging to Ladan, _namely_, the Jehielites, _were_ the heads of the fathers' _households_, belonging to Ladan the Gershonite. 















###### 22 







The sons of Jehieli, Zetham and his brother Joel, were in charge of the treasuries of the house of the LORD. 















###### 23 







Of the Amramites, Izharites, Hebronites, and Uzzielites: 















###### 24 







Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was supervisor over the treasuries. 















###### 25 







His relatives by Eliezer were his son Rehabiah, his son Jeshaiah, his son Joram, his son Zichri, and his son Shelomoth. 















###### 26 







This Shelomoth and his relatives were in charge of all the treasuries of the dedicated gifts which King David, the heads of the fathers' _households_, the commanders of thousands and hundreds, and the commanders of the army, had dedicated. 















###### 27 







From spoil won in battles they dedicated _gifts_ to maintain _and_ repair the house of the LORD. 















###### 28 







Also all that Samuel the seer had dedicated, and Saul the son of Kish, Abner the son of Ner and Joab the son of Zeruiah, everyone who had dedicated _anything_, this was in the care of Shelomoth and his relatives. ## Outside Duties 















###### 29 







Of the Izharites: Chenaniah and his sons were _appointed_ to outside duties for Israel, as administrators and judges. 















###### 30 







Of the Hebronites: Hashabiah and his relatives, 1,700 capable men, were in charge of the affairs of Israel west of the Jordan, for all the work of the LORD and the service of the king. 















###### 31 







Of the Hebronites: Jerijah was the chief **(**these Hebronites were examined according to their descendants and fathers' _households_ in the fortieth [and final] year of David's reign, and men of courage _and_ ability were found among them at Jazer in Gilead**)** 















###### 32 







and Jerijah's relatives, 2,700 capable men, were heads of fathers' _households_; and King David made them overseers of the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, for everything pertaining to God and to the king. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 26:18 Heb _Parbar_, possibly an annex or open meeting place.
