---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 17]
previous: ['1 Chr 16']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 18']
---
# 1 Chronicles 17

***
















###### 1 







As David sat in his house (palace), he said to Nathan the prophet, "Behold, I live in a house of cedars, while the ark of the covenant of the LORD is under tent curtains." 















###### 2 







Then Nathan said to David, "[^a]Do all that is in your heart, for God is with you." 















###### 3 







But it came about that same night that the word of God came to Nathan, saying, 















###### 4 







"Go and tell David My servant, 'Thus says the LORD, "You shall not build a house for Me to dwell in; 















###### 5 







for I have not dwelt in a house since the day that I brought Israel up [from Egypt] until this day, but I have gone from tent to tent and from _one_ dwelling place _to another_. 















###### 6 







Wherever I have walked with all Israel, did I say a word to any of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to shepherd My people, saying, 'Why have you not built for Me a house of cedar?'"' 















###### 7 







Now, therefore, this is what you shall say to My servant David: 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, "I took you from the pasture, from following the sheep, to be leader over My people Israel. 















###### 8 







I have been with you wherever you have gone, and I have cut off all your enemies from before you; and I will make your name like the name of the great ones of the earth. 















###### 9 







I will appoint a place for My people Israel, and will plant them, so that they may live in their own place and not be moved again [nor tremble with fear]; and the [^b]wicked will not waste (persecute) them anymore, as formerly, 















###### 10 







since the time that I commanded judges to be over My people Israel. And I will humble _and_ subdue all your enemies. "Furthermore, I tell you that the LORD will build you a house (a blessed posterity). 















###### 11 







And it shall come to pass that when your days are completed and you must go to be with your fathers [in death], I will raise up _one of_ your descendants after you, one of your own sons; and I will establish his kingdom. 















###### 12 







He shall build Me a house, and I will establish his throne forever. 















###### 13 







I will be his father and he shall be My son; and I will not take My steadfast love _and_ mercy away from him, as I took it from him (King Saul) who was before you. 















###### 14 







But I will settle [^c]him in My house and in My kingdom forever, and his throne shall be established forevermore."'" 















###### 15 







According to all these words and according to all this vision, so Nathan spoke to David. ## David's Prayer in Response 















###### 16 







Then David the king went in and sat before the LORD and said, "Who am I, O LORD God, and what is my house _and_ family that You have brought me this far? 















###### 17 







This was a small thing in Your eyes, O God; but You have spoken of Your servant's house for a great while to come, and have regarded me according to the standard _and_ estate of a man of high degree (prominence), O LORD God. 















###### 18 







What more can David say to You for the honor _granted to_ Your servant? For You know Your servant. 















###### 19 







O LORD, for Your servant's sake, and in accordance with Your own heart, You have accomplished all this greatness, to make known all these great things. 















###### 20 







O LORD, there is no one like You, nor is there any God except You, according to all that we have heard with our ears. 















###### 21 







And what one nation on the earth is like Your people Israel, whom God went to redeem for Himself as a people, to make a name for Yourself by great and awesome _and_ terrible things, by driving out nations from before Your people, whom You redeemed out of Egypt? 















###### 22 







You made Your people Israel Your own people forever, and You, LORD, became their God. 















###### 23 







"Therefore now, O LORD, let the word which You have spoken concerning Your servant and his house endure forever, and do as You have said. 















###### 24 







Let Your name [and the character that it denotes] endure and be magnified forever, saying, 'The LORD of hosts is the God of Israel, yes, a God to Israel; and the house of Your servant David is established before You.' 















###### 25 







For You, O my God, have revealed to Your servant that You will build for him a house (descendants); therefore Your servant has found _courage_ to pray before You. 















###### 26 







And now, O LORD, You are God, and you have spoken _and_ promised this good thing to Your servant. 















###### 27 







Therefore may it please You to bless the house (descendants) of Your servant, that it may continue before You forever; for what You bless, O LORD, is blessed forever." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 17:2 This may have been advice expressed by Nathan rather than a prophecy; in v 4 it becomes clear that God did not tell Nathan to say this. [^b]: 1 Chronicles 17:9 Lit _sons of wickedness_. [^c]: 1 Chronicles 17:14 At this point the prophecy looks ahead from Solomon to the Messiah (Christ), whose reign will be forever; yet the reference to Solomon is not lost, and the Messiah’s reign in a sense will be the fulfillment of Solomon’s as described here.
