---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 12]
previous: ['1 Chr 11']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 13']
---
# 1 Chronicles 12

***
















###### 1 







These are the ones who came to David at Ziklag, while he still concealed himself from Saul the son of Kish; they were among the courageous men who helped him in battle. 















###### 2 







They were armed with bows, and could use the right hand or the left to _sling_ stones and _shoot_ arrows from the bow; _they were_ Saul's relatives from [the tribe of] Benjamin. 















###### 3 







The chief was Ahiezer and then Joash, the sons of Shemaah of Gibeah; Jeziel and Pelet the sons of Azmaveth; Beracah, and Jehu of Anathoth, 















###### 4 







Ishmaiah of Gibeon, a mighty man among the thirty, and [a leader] over them; [^a]Jeremiah, Jahaziel, Johanan, Jozabad of Gederah, 















###### 5 







[^b]Eluzai, Jerimoth, Bealiah, Shemariah, Shephatiah the Haruphite, 















###### 6 







Elkanah, Isshiah, Azarel, Joezer, and Jashobeam, the Korahites, 















###### 7 







and Joelah and Zebadiah the sons of Jeroham of Gedor. 















###### 8 







Courageous men from the Gadites came over to David in the stronghold in the wilderness, men trained for war, who could handle shield and spear, whose faces were like the faces of lions, and who were swift as gazelles on the mountains. 















###### 9 







Ezer was the first, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third, 















###### 10 







Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth, 















###### 11 







Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh, 















###### 12 







Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth, 















###### 13 







Jeremiah the tenth, Machbannai the eleventh. 















###### 14 







These from the sons (descendants) of Gad were captains of the army; he who was least was [^c]equal to a hundred, and the greatest was equal to a thousand. 















###### 15 







These are the men who crossed over the Jordan in the first month when it had overflowed all its banks and they put to flight all those in the valleys, east and west. 















###### 16 







Then some of the [^d]men of Benjamin and Judah came to the stronghold to David. 















###### 17 







David went out to meet them and said to them, "If you have come peacefully to me to help me, my heart shall be united with you; but if _you have come_ to betray me to my adversaries, since there is no violence _or_ wrong in my hands, may the God of our fathers look on [what you are doing] and punish [you]." 















###### 18 







Then the [Holy] Spirit came on Amasai, who was chief of the thirty, _and he said_, "We are yours, O David, And with you, O son of Jesse! Peace, peace be to you, And peace be to him who helps you; For your God helps you." Then David accepted _and_ received them and made them officers of his troops. 















###### 19 







Some [of the men] of Manasseh also defected to David when he came with the Philistines to go to battle against Saul. But David's men did not [actually] assist the Philistines, for the lords (governors) of the Philistines after consultation sent him away, saying, "At _the cost of_ our heads he may defect to his master Saul." 















###### 20 







As David went to Ziklag, _these men_ defected to him from Manasseh: Adnah, Jozabad, Jediael, Michael, Jozabad, Elihu, and Zillethai, captains of thousands who belonged to Manasseh. 















###### 21 







They helped David against the band of raiders, for they were all courageous men, and [all seven] became commanders in his army. 















###### 22 







For day by day men kept coming to David to help him, until there was a great army, like the army of God. ## Supporters Gathered at Hebron 















###### 23 







These are the numbers of the [armed] units equipped for war who came to David at Hebron to turn [over] the kingdom of Saul to him, in accordance with the word of the LORD. 















###### 24 







Those of the tribe of Judah who carried shield and spear were 6,800, armed for war; 















###### 25 







of the tribe of Simeon, brave warriors, 7,100; 















###### 26 







of the tribe of Levi, 4,600. 















###### 27 







Jehoiada was the leader of [the house of] Aaron, and with him were 3,700, 















###### 28 







and Zadok, a courageous young man, and twenty-two captains from his father's house. 















###### 29 







Of the tribe of Benjamin, the relatives of [King] Saul, 3,000; for until now the majority of them had kept their allegiance to the house of Saul. 















###### 30 







Of the tribe of Ephraim, 20,800, courageous men, famous in their fathers' houses. 















###### 31 







Of the half-tribe of Manasseh, 18,000, who were designated by name to come and make David king. 















###### 32 







Of the tribe of Issachar, men who understood the times, with knowledge of what Israel should do, two hundred chiefs; and all their relatives were at their command; 















###### 33 







of the tribe of Zebulun, there were 50,000 in military service who could draw up in battle formation with all kinds of weapons of war and helped _David, men_ with [^e]an undivided heart. 















###### 34 







Of the tribe of Naphtali, _there were_ 1,000 captains, and with them 37,000 [of the rank and file armed] with shield and spear. 















###### 35 







Of the tribe of Dan, 28,600 men who could draw up in battle formation. 















###### 36 







Of the tribe of Asher, 40,000 men in military service, able to draw up in battle formation. 















###### 37 







From the other side [east] of the Jordan _River_, of [the tribes of] Reuben and Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh, 120,000 men, _armed_ with all kinds of weapons of war for the battle. 















###### 38 







All these, being men of war arrayed in battle formation, came to Hebron with a perfect (committed) heart to make David king over all Israel; and all the rest of Israel were also of one mind to make David king. 















###### 39 







They were there with David for three days, eating and drinking, for their relatives had prepared for them. 















###### 40 







Also those who were [living] near them [from] as far as [the tribes of] Issachar, Zebulun, and Naphtali, brought food on donkeys, camels, mules, and oxen, abundant supplies of flour, cakes of figs and raisins, wine, [olive] oil, oxen, and sheep, for there was joy in Israel. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 12:4 In Hebrew the beginning of v 5, making 41 vv in the chapter. [^b]: 1 Chronicles 12:5 V 6 in Hebrew. [^c]: 1 Chronicles 12:14 Or _over_ and so throughout. [^d]: 1 Chronicles 12:16 Lit _sons_. [^e]: 1 Chronicles 12:33 I.e. trustworthy men, men of honor without any sort of hidden agenda or double purpose.
