---
Aliases: [1 Samuel 13]
previous: ['1 Sam 12']
up: ['1 Samuel']
next: ['1 Sam 14']
---
# 1 Samuel 13

***




















###### 1 









Saul was thirty[^a] years old when he became king, and he reigned over Israel forty-[^b] two years. 



















###### 2 









Saul chose three thousand men from Israel; two thousand were with him at Mikmash and in the hill country of Bethel, and a thousand were with Jonathan at Gibeah in Benjamin. The rest of the men he sent back to their homes. 



















###### 3 









Jonathan attacked the Philistine outpost at Geba, and the Philistines heard about it. Then Saul had the trumpet blown throughout the land and said, "Let the Hebrews hear!" 



















###### 4 









So all Israel heard the news: "Saul has attacked the Philistine outpost, and now Israel has become obnoxious to the Philistines." And the people were summoned to join Saul at Gilgal. 



















###### 5 









The Philistines assembled to fight Israel, with three thousand[^c] chariots, six thousand charioteers, and soldiers as numerous as the sand on the seashore. They went up and camped at Mikmash, east of Beth Aven. 



















###### 6 









When the Israelites saw that their situation was critical and that their army was hard pressed, they hid in caves and thickets, among the rocks, and in pits and cisterns. 



















###### 7 









Some Hebrews even crossed the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. Saul remained at Gilgal, and all the troops with him were quaking with fear. 



















###### 8 









He waited seven days, the time set by Samuel; but Samuel did not come to Gilgal, and Saul's men began to scatter. 



















###### 9 









So he said, "Bring me the burnt offering and the fellowship offerings." And Saul offered up the burnt offering. 



















###### 10 









Just as he finished making the offering, Samuel arrived, and Saul went out to greet him. 



















###### 11 









"What have you done?" asked Samuel. Saul replied, "When I saw that the men were scattering, and that you did not come at the set time, and that the Philistines were assembling at Mikmash, 



















###### 12 









I thought, 'Now the Philistines will come down against me at Gilgal, and I have not sought the LORD's favor.' So I felt compelled to offer the burnt offering." 



















###### 13 









"You have done a foolish thing," Samuel said. "You have not kept the command the LORD your God gave you; if you had, he would have established your kingdom over Israel for all time. 



















###### 14 









But now your kingdom will not endure; the LORD has sought out a man after his own heart and appointed him ruler of his people, because you have not kept the LORD's command." 



















###### 15 









Then Samuel left Gilgal[^d] and went up to Gibeah in Benjamin, and Saul counted the men who were with him. They numbered about six hundred. ## Israel Without Weapons 



















###### 16 









Saul and his son Jonathan and the men with them were staying in Gibeah[^e] in Benjamin, while the Philistines camped at Mikmash. 



















###### 17 









Raiding parties went out from the Philistine camp in three detachments. One turned toward Ophrah in the vicinity of Shual, 



















###### 18 









another toward Beth Horon, and the third toward the borderland overlooking the Valley of Zeboyim facing the wilderness. 



















###### 19 









Not a blacksmith could be found in the whole land of Israel, because the Philistines had said, "Otherwise the Hebrews will make swords or spears!" 



















###### 20 









So all Israel went down to the Philistines to have their plow points, mattocks, axes and sickles[^f] sharpened. 



















###### 21 









The price was two-thirds of a shekel[^g] for sharpening plow points and mattocks, and a third of a shekel[^h] for sharpening forks and axes and for repointing goads. 



















###### 22 









So on the day of the battle not a soldier with Saul and Jonathan had a sword or spear in his hand; only Saul and his son Jonathan had them. ## Jonathan Attacks the Philistines 



















###### 23 









Now a detachment of Philistines had gone out to the pass at Mikmash. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Samuel 13:1 A few late manuscripts of the Septuagint; Hebrew does not have _thirty._ [^b]: 1 Samuel 13:1 Probable reading of the original Hebrew text (see Acts 13:21); Masoretic Text does not have _forty-_. [^c]: 1 Samuel 13:5 Some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac; Hebrew _thirty thousand_ [^d]: 1 Samuel 13:15 Hebrew; Septuagint _Gilgal and went his way; the rest of the people went after Saul to meet the army, and they went out of Gilgal_ [^e]: 1 Samuel 13:16 Two Hebrew manuscripts; most Hebrew manuscripts _Geba,_ a variant of _Gibeah_ [^f]: 1 Samuel 13:20 Septuagint; Hebrew _plow points_ [^g]: 1 Samuel 13:21 That is, about 1/4 ounce or about 8 grams [^h]: 1 Samuel 13:21 That is, about 1/8 ounce or about 4 grams
