---
Aliases: [1 Samuel 28]
previous: ['1 Sam 27']
up: ['1 Samuel']
next: ['1 Sam 29']
---
# 1 Samuel 28

***








###### 1 



Now it came about in those days that the Philistines gathered their armed camps for war, to fight against Israel. And Achish said to David, "Know for certain that you will go out with me in the camp, you and your men." 







###### 2 



David said to Achish, "Very well, you will learn what your servant can do." So Achish said to David, "_Then_ I will assuredly make you [^a]my bodyguard for [^b]life!" 







###### 3 



Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had mourned him and buried him in Ramah, his own city. And Saul had removed the mediums and spiritists from the land. 







###### 4 



So the Philistines assembled and came and camped in Shunem; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they camped in Gilboa. 







###### 5 



When Saul saw the camp of the Philistines, he was afraid and his heart trembled greatly. 







###### 6 



So Saul inquired of the LORD, but the LORD did not answer him, either in dreams, or by the Urim, or by the prophets. 







###### 7 



Then Saul said to his servants, "Find for me a woman who is a medium, so that I may go to her and inquire of her." And his servants said to him, "Behold, there is a woman who is a medium at En-dor." 







###### 8 



Then Saul disguised himself by putting on different clothes, and went, he and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night; and he said, "Consult the spirit for me, please, and bring up for me _the one_ whom I shall [^c]name for you." 







###### 9 



But the woman said to him, "Behold, you know what Saul has done, that he has eliminated the mediums and spiritists from the land. Why are you then setting a trap for my life, to bring about my death?" 







###### 10 



So Saul swore an oath to her by the LORD, saying, "As the LORD lives, no punishment shall come upon you for this thing." 







###### 11 



Then the woman said, "Whom shall I bring up for you?" And he said, "Bring up Samuel for me." 







###### 12 



When the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice; and the woman spoke to Saul, saying, "Why have you deceived me? For you are Saul!" 







###### 13 



But the king said to her, "Do not be afraid; but what do you see?" And the woman said to Saul, "I see a [^d]divine being coming up from the earth." 







###### 14 



He said to her, "[^e]How does he appear?" And she said, "An old man is coming up, and he is wrapped in a robe." Then Saul knew that it was Samuel, and he bowed with his face to the ground and paid [^f]homage. 







###### 15 



And Samuel said to Saul, "Why have you disturbed me by bringing me up?" Saul replied, "I am very distressed, for the Philistines are waging war against me, and God has abandoned me and no longer answers me, either through prophets or in dreams; therefore I have called you, so that you may let me know what I should do." 







###### 16 



Samuel said, "But why ask me, since the LORD has abandoned you and has become your enemy? 







###### 17 



And the LORD has done [^g]just as He spoke through me; for the LORD has torn the kingdom from your hand and given it to your neighbor, to David. 







###### 18 



Just as you did not [^h]obey the LORD and did not execute His fierce wrath on Amalek, so the LORD has done this thing to you this day. 







###### 19 



Furthermore, the LORD will also hand Israel along with you over to the Philistines; so tomorrow you and your sons _will be_ with me. Indeed, the LORD will hand the army of Israel over to the Philistines!" 







###### 20 



Then Saul immediately fell full length to the ground and was very afraid because of Samuel's words; there was no strength in him either, because he had eaten no [^i]food all day and all night. 







###### 21 



The woman came to Saul and saw that he was utterly horrified, and she said to him, "Behold, your servant has [^j]obeyed you, and I have [^k]taken my life in my hand and have listened to your words which you spoke to me. 







###### 22 



So now you too, please listen to the voice of your servant, and let me serve you a piece of bread, and eat _it_, so that you will have strength when you go on _your_ way." 







###### 23 



But he refused and said, "I will not eat." However, his servants together with the woman urged him, and he listened to [^l]them. So he got up from the ground and sat on the bed. 







###### 24 



Now the woman had a fattened calf in the house, and she quickly slaughtered it; then she took flour, kneaded it and baked unleavened bread _from it_. 







###### 25 



She then served _it_ to Saul and his servants, and they ate. Then they got up and left that night. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Samuel 28:2 Lit _guardian of my head_ [^b]: 1 Samuel 28:2 Lit _all the days_ [^c]: 1 Samuel 28:8 Lit _say_ [^d]: 1 Samuel 28:13 Or _god_ [^e]: 1 Samuel 28:14 Lit _What is his form_ [^f]: 1 Samuel 28:14 I.e., great respect and honor to a superior [^g]: 1 Samuel 28:17 Lit _for Himself just_; another reading is _to you just_ [^h]: 1 Samuel 28:18 Lit _listen to the voice of_ [^i]: 1 Samuel 28:20 Lit _bread_ [^j]: 1 Samuel 28:21 Lit _listened to your voice_ [^k]: 1 Samuel 28:21 Lit _put_ [^l]: 1 Samuel 28:23 Lit _their voice_
