---
Aliases: [1 Samuel 14]
previous: ['1 Sam 13']
up: ['1 Samuel']
next: ['1 Sam 15']
---
# 1 Samuel 14

***








###### 1 



Now the day came that Jonathan, the son of Saul, said to the young man who was carrying his armor, "Come, and let's cross over to the Philistines' garrison that is on the other side." But he did not tell his father. 







###### 2 



Saul was staying on the outskirts of Gibeah under the pomegranate tree that is in Migron. And the people who _were_ with him _numbered_ about six hundred men; 







###### 3 



and Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, Ichabod's brother, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the priest of the LORD at Shiloh, was [^a]wearing an ephod. And the people did not know that Jonathan had gone. 







###### 4 



Now between the gorges by which Jonathan sought to cross over to the Philistines' garrison there was a rocky crag on the one side, and a rocky crag on the other side; and the name of the one was Bozez, and the name of the other, Seneh. 







###### 5 



The one crag _rose_ on the north opposite Michmash, and the other on the south opposite Geba. 







###### 6 



Then Jonathan said to the young man who was carrying his armor, "Come, and let's cross over to the garrison of these uncircumcised _men_; perhaps the LORD will work for us, because the LORD is not limited to saving by many or by few!" 







###### 7 



His armor bearer said to him, "Do everything that is in your heart; turn yourself _to it, and_ here I am with you, as your heart _desires_." 







###### 8 



Then Jonathan said, "Behold, we are going to cross over to the men and reveal ourselves to them. 







###### 9 



If they [^b]say to us, 'Wait until we come to you'; then we will stand in our place and not go up to them. 







###### 10 



But if they [^c]say, 'Come up to us,' then we will go up, for the LORD has handed them over to us; and this _shall be_ the sign to us." 







###### 11 



When the two of them revealed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines, the Philistines said, "Behold, Hebrews are coming out of the holes where they have kept themselves hidden." 







###### 12 



So the men of the garrison responded to Jonathan and his armor bearer and said, "Come up to us and we will inform you of something." And Jonathan said to his armor bearer, "Come up after me, for the LORD has handed them over to Israel." 







###### 13 



Then Jonathan climbed up on his hands and feet, with his armor bearer behind him; and _the men_ fell before Jonathan, and his armor bearer put some to death after him. 







###### 14 



Now that first slaughter which Jonathan and his armor bearer inflicted was about twenty men within about half a furrow in an acre of land. 







###### 15 



And there was a trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people. Even the garrison and the raiders trembled, and the earth quaked so that it became a [^d]great trembling. 







###### 16 



Now Saul's watchmen in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and behold, the multitude dissolved; they went here _and there_. 







###### 17 



So Saul said to the people who _were_ with him, "Look carefully now and see who has left us." And when they had looked, behold, Jonathan and his armor bearer were not _there_. 







###### 18 



Then Saul said to Ahijah, "Bring the ark of God here." For at that time the ark of God was with the sons of Israel. 







###### 19 



While Saul talked to the priest, the commotion in the camp of the Philistines continued and increased; so Saul said to the priest, "Withdraw your hand." 







###### 20 



Then Saul and all the people who _were_ with him rallied and came to the battle; and behold, every man's sword was against his fellow _Philistine, and there was_ very great confusion. 







###### 21 



Now the Hebrews _who_ were with the Philistines previously, who went up with them all around in the camp, even they also _returned_ to be with the Israelites who _were_ with Saul and Jonathan. 







###### 22 



When all the men of Israel who had kept themselves hidden in the hill country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines had fled, they also closely pursued them in the battle. 







###### 23 



So the LORD saved Israel that day, and the battle [^e]spread beyond Beth-aven. ## Saul's Foolish Order 







###### 24 



Now the men of Israel were hard-pressed on that day, for Saul had put the people under oath, saying, "Cursed be the man who eats food [^f]before evening, and _before_ I have avenged myself on my enemies." So none of the people tasted food. 







###### 25 



All _the people of_ the land entered the forest, and there was honey on the ground. 







###### 26 



When the people entered the forest, behold, _there was_ honey dripping; but no man put his hand to his mouth, because the people feared the oath. 







###### 27 



However, Jonathan had not heard _it_ when his father put the people under oath; so he put out the end of the staff that _was_ in his hand and dipped it in the honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes [^g]brightened. 







###### 28 



Then one of the people responded and said, "Your father strictly put the people under oath, saying, 'Cursed be the man who eats food today.'" And the people were weary. 







###### 29 



Then Jonathan said, "My father has troubled the land. See now that my eyes have brightened because I tasted a little of this honey. 







###### 30 



How much more, if only the people had freely eaten today of the spoils of their enemies which they found! For now the defeat among the Philistines has not been great." 







###### 31 



They attacked the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon. But the people were very tired. 







###### 32 



So the people loudly rushed upon the spoils, and took sheep, oxen, and calves, and slaughtered _them_ on the ground; and the people ate _them_ with the blood. 







###### 33 



Then _observers_ informed Saul, saying, "Look, the people are sinning against the LORD by eating _meat_ with the blood." And he said, "You have acted treacherously; roll a large rock to me today." 







###### 34 



Then Saul said, "Disperse yourselves among the people and say to them, 'Each one of you bring me his ox or his sheep, and slaughter _it_ here and eat; and do not sin against the LORD by eating _it_ with the blood.'" So all the people brought _them_ that night, each one his ox [^h]with him, and they slaughtered _them_ there. 







###### 35 



And Saul built an altar to the LORD; it was the first altar that he built to the LORD. 







###### 36 



Then Saul said, "Let's go down after the Philistines by night and take plunder among them until the morning light, and let's not leave a man among them alive." And they said, "Do whatever seems good [^i]to you." So the priest said, "Let's approach God here." 







###### 37 



So Saul inquired of God: "Shall I go down after the Philistines? Will You hand them over to Israel?" But He did not answer him on that day. 







###### 38 



Then Saul said, "[^j]Come here, all you [^k]leaders of the people, and investigate and see how this sin has happened today. 







###### 39 



For as the LORD lives, who saves Israel, even if it is in my son Jonathan, he shall assuredly die!" But not one of all the people answered him. 







###### 40 



Then he said to all Israel, "You shall be on one side, and I and my son Jonathan will be on the other side." And the people said to Saul, "Do what seems good [^l]to you." 







###### 41 



Therefore, Saul said to the LORD, the God of Israel, "Give a [^m]perfect _lot_." And Jonathan and Saul were selected by lot, but the people [^n]were exonerated. 







###### 42 



Then Saul said, "Cast _lots_ between me and my son Jonathan." And Jonathan was selected by lot. 







###### 43 



So Saul said to Jonathan, "Tell me what you have done." And Jonathan told him, and said, "I did indeed taste a little honey with the end of the staff that was in my hand. Here I am, I must die!" 







###### 44 



And Saul said, "May God do the same _to me_ and more also, for you shall certainly die, Jonathan!" 







###### 45 



But the people said to Saul, "Must Jonathan die, he who has [^o]brought about this great [^p]victory in Israel? Far from it! As the LORD lives, not _even_ a hair of his head shall fall to the ground, because he has worked with God this day." So the people [^q]rescued Jonathan and he did not die. 







###### 46 



Then Saul went up from [^r]pursuing the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their own place. ## Constant Warfare 







###### 47 



Now when Saul had taken control of the kingdom over Israel, he fought against all his enemies on every side, against Moab, the sons of Ammon, Edom, the kings of Zobah, and the Philistines; and wherever he turned, he [^s]inflicted punishment. 







###### 48 



And he acted valiantly and [^t]defeated the Amalekites, and saved Israel from the hands of [^u]those who plundered them. 







###### 49 



Now the sons of Saul were Jonathan, Ishvi, and Malchi-shua; and the names of his two daughters _were these_: the name of the firstborn _was_ Merab, and the name of the younger, Michal. 







###### 50 



And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz. And the name of the commander of his army was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's uncle. 







###### 51 



Kish _was_ the father of Saul, and Ner the father of Abner _was_ the son of Abiel. 







###### 52 



Now the war against the Philistines was severe all the days of Saul; and when Saul saw any warrior or any valiant man, he [^v]attached him to his staff. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Samuel 14:3 Lit _carrying_ [^b]: 1 Samuel 14:9 Lit _say thus_ [^c]: 1 Samuel 14:10 Lit _say thus_ [^d]: 1 Samuel 14:15 Lit _trembling of God_ [^e]: 1 Samuel 14:23 Lit _passed over_ [^f]: 1 Samuel 14:24 Lit _until_ [^g]: 1 Samuel 14:27 As in some mss and ancient versions; MT _saw_ [^h]: 1 Samuel 14:34 Lit _with his hand_ [^i]: 1 Samuel 14:36 Lit _in your eyes_ [^j]: 1 Samuel 14:38 Lit _Approach here_ [^k]: 1 Samuel 14:38 Lit _cornerstones_ [^l]: 1 Samuel 14:40 Lit _in your eyes_ [^m]: 1 Samuel 14:41 I.e., a clear answer [^n]: 1 Samuel 14:41 Lit _got out_ [^o]: 1 Samuel 14:45 Lit _worked_ [^p]: 1 Samuel 14:45 Lit _deliverance_ [^q]: 1 Samuel 14:45 Lit _ransomed_ [^r]: 1 Samuel 14:46 Lit _after_ [^s]: 1 Samuel 14:47 Or _condemned_ [^t]: 1 Samuel 14:48 Lit _struck_ [^u]: 1 Samuel 14:48 Lit _its plunderer_ [^v]: 1 Samuel 14:52 Lit _brought him in to himself_
