---
Aliases: [1 Samuel 24]
previous: ['1 Sam 23']
up: ['1 Samuel']
next: ['1 Sam 25']
---
# 1 Samuel 24

***








###### 1 



[^a]Now when Saul returned from pursuing the Philistines, it was reported to him, saying, "Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi." 







###### 2 



Then Saul took three thousand chosen men from all Israel and went to search for David and his men in front of the Rocks of the Mountain Goats. 







###### 3 



And he came to the sheepfolds on the way, where there _was_ a cave; and Saul went in to [^b]relieve himself. Now David and his men were sitting in the inner recesses of the cave. 







###### 4 



Then David's men said to him, "Behold, _this is_ the day of which the LORD said to you, 'Behold; I am about to hand your enemy over to you, and you shall do to him as it seems good [^c]to you.'" Then David got up and cut off the edge of Saul's robe secretly. 







###### 5 



But it came about afterward that David's [^d]conscience bothered him because he had cut off the edge of Saul's _robe_. 







###### 6 



So he said to his men, "Far be it from me because of the LORD that I would do this thing to my lord, the LORD's anointed, to reach out with my hand against him, since he is the LORD's anointed." 







###### 7 



And David rebuked his men with _these_ words and did not allow them to rise up against Saul. And Saul got up, [^e]left the cave, and went on _his_ way. 







###### 8 



Afterward, however, David got up and went out of the cave, and called after Saul, saying, "My lord the king!" And when Saul looked behind him, David bowed with his face to the ground and prostrated himself. 







###### 9 



And David said to Saul, "Why do you listen to the words of men [^f]who say, 'Behold, David is seeking [^g]to harm you'? 







###### 10 



Behold, this day your eyes have seen that the LORD had handed you over to me today in the cave, and _someone_ said to kill you, but [^h]I spared you; and I said, 'I will not reach out with my hand against my lord, because he is the LORD's anointed.' 







###### 11 



So, my father, look! Indeed, look at the edge of your robe in my hand! For by _the fact_ that I cut off the edge of your robe but did not kill you, know and understand that there is no evil or [^i]rebellion in my hands, and I have not sinned against you, though you are lying in wait for my life, to take it. 







###### 12 



May the LORD judge between [^j]you and me, and may the LORD take vengeance on you for me; but my hand shall not be against you. 







###### 13 



As the proverb of the ancients says, 'Out of the wicked comes wickedness'; but my hand shall not be against you. 







###### 14 



After whom has the king of Israel gone out? Whom are you pursuing? A dead dog, a single flea? 







###### 15 



May the LORD therefore be judge and decide between [^k]you and me; and may He see and plead my cause and save me from your hand." 







###### 16 



When David had finished speaking these words to Saul, Saul said, "Is this your voice, my son David?" Then Saul raised his voice and wept. 







###### 17 



And he said to David, "You are more righteous than I; for you have dealt well with me, while I have dealt maliciously with you. 







###### 18 



You have declared today that you have done good to me, that the LORD handed me over to you and _yet_ you did not kill me. 







###### 19 



Though if a man finds his enemy, will he let him go away [^l]unharmed? May the LORD therefore reward you with good in return for what you have done to me this day. 







###### 20 



Now, behold, I know that you will certainly be king, and that the kingdom of Israel will be established in your hand. 







###### 21 



So now swear to me by the LORD that you will not cut off my [^m]descendants after me, and that you will not eliminate my name from my father's household." 







###### 22 



And David swore _an oath_ to Saul. Then Saul went to his home, but David and his men went up to the stronghold. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Samuel 24:1 Ch 24:2 in Heb [^b]: 1 Samuel 24:3 Lit _cover his feet_ [^c]: 1 Samuel 24:4 Lit _in your eyes_ [^d]: 1 Samuel 24:5 Lit _heart struck_ [^e]: 1 Samuel 24:7 Lit _from_ [^f]: 1 Samuel 24:9 Lit _saying_ [^g]: 1 Samuel 24:9 Lit _your harm_ [^h]: 1 Samuel 24:10 As in ancient versions; MT, my eye _had pity on_ [^i]: 1 Samuel 24:11 Lit _offense_ [^j]: 1 Samuel 24:12 Lit _me and you_ [^k]: 1 Samuel 24:15 Lit _me and you_ [^l]: 1 Samuel 24:19 Lit _on a good road_ [^m]: 1 Samuel 24:21 Lit _seed_
