---
Aliases: [1 Samuel 20]
previous: ['1 Sam 19']
up: ['1 Samuel']
next: ['1 Sam 21']
---
# 1 Samuel 20

***








###### 1 



Then David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and he came and said [^a]to Jonathan, "What have I done? What is my guilt? And what is my sin before your father, that he is seeking my life?" 







###### 2 



He said to him, "Far from it, you shall not die! Behold, my father does nothing either great or small [^b]without informing me. So why would my father hide this thing from me? It is not so!" 







###### 3 



Yet David vowed again, [^c]saying, "Your father is well aware that I have found favor in your sight, and he has said, 'Jonathan is not to know this, otherwise he will be worried.' But indeed as the LORD lives and as your soul lives, there is [^d]just a step between me and death." 







###### 4 



Then Jonathan said to David, "Whatever [^e]you say, I will do for you." 







###### 5 



So David said to Jonathan, "Behold, tomorrow is the new moon, and I am obligated to sit down to eat with the king. But let me go so that I may hide myself in the field until the third evening. 







###### 6 



If your father misses me at all, then say, 'David earnestly requested _leave_ of me to run to Bethlehem, his city, because it is the yearly sacrifice there for the whole family.' 







###### 7 



If he [^f]says, '_That is_ good,' your servant _will be_ safe; but if he is very angry, be aware that he has decided on evil. 







###### 8 



So deal kindly with your servant, for you have brought your servant into a covenant of the LORD with you. But if [^g]I am guilty of wrongdoing, kill me yourself; for why then should you bring me to your father?" 







###### 9 



Jonathan said, "Far be it from you! For if I in fact learn that my father has decided [^h]to inflict harm on you, would I not inform you?" 







###### 10 



Then David said to Jonathan, "Who will inform me [^i]if your father answers you harshly?" 







###### 11 



Jonathan said to David, "Come, and let's go out to the field." So both of them went out to the field. 







###### 12 



Then Jonathan said to David, "The LORD, the God of Israel, _is my witness_! When I have sounded out my father about this time tomorrow _or_ the third day, behold, _if he has a_ good _feeling_ toward [^j]you, shall I not then send _word_ to you and [^k]inform you? 







###### 13 



If it pleases my father _to do_ you harm, may the LORD do so to [^l]me and more so, if I _fail to_ [^m]inform you and send you away, so that you may go in safety. And may the LORD be with you as He has been with my father. 







###### 14 



And if I am still alive, will you not show me the faithfulness of the LORD, so that I do not die? 







###### 15 



And you shall never cut off your loyalty to my house, not even when the LORD cuts off every one of the enemies of David from the face of the earth." 







###### 16 



So Jonathan made a _covenant_ with the house of David, _saying_, "May the LORD demand _it_ from the hands of David's enemies." 







###### 17 



And Jonathan made David vow again because of his love for him, because he loved him as he loved his own life. 







###### 18 



Then Jonathan said to him, "Tomorrow is the new moon, and you will be missed since your seat will be empty. 







###### 19 



When you have stayed for three days, you shall go down quickly and come to the place where you hid yourself on that eventful day, and you shall remain beside the stone Ezel. 







###### 20 



And I will shoot three arrows to the side, as though I shot at a target. 







###### 21 



Then behold, I will send the boy, _telling him_, 'Go, find the arrows.' If I specifically say to the boy, 'Behold, the arrows are on this side of you, get them,' then come, because it is safe for you and there is nothing _to harm you_, as the LORD lives. 







###### 22 



But if I [^n]say to the youth, 'Behold, the arrows are beyond you,' go, because the LORD has sent you away. 







###### 23 



As for the [^o]agreement of which you and I have spoken, behold, the LORD is between you and me forever." 







###### 24 



So David hid himself in the field; and when the new moon came, the king sat down to eat food. 







###### 25 



Now the king sat on his seat as usual, the seat by the wall; then Jonathan stood up and Abner sat down by Saul's side; but David's place was empty. 







###### 26 



Nevertheless Saul did not say anything that day, because he thought, "It _must have been_ an [^p]accident; he is not clean, undoubtedly _he is_ not clean." 







###### 27 



But it came about the next day, the second _day_ of the new moon, that David's place was empty _again_; so Saul said to his son Jonathan, "Why has the son of Jesse not come to the meal, either yesterday or today?" 







###### 28 



And Jonathan answered Saul, "David earnestly requested leave of me _to go_ to Bethlehem. 







###### 29 



He said, 'Please let me go, because our family has a sacrifice in the city, and my brother has ordered me _to attend_. So now, if I have found favor in your sight, please let me slip away so that I may see my brothers.' For this reason he has not come to the king's table." ## Saul Is Angry with Jonathan 







###### 30 



Then Saul's anger burned against Jonathan, and he said to him, "You son of a perverse, rebellious woman! Do I not know that you are choosing the son of Jesse to your own shame, and to the shame of your mother's nakedness? 







###### 31 



For, [^q]as long as the son of Jesse lives on the earth, neither you nor your kingdom will be established. Now then, send _men_ and bring him to me, for he is [^r]doomed to die!" 







###### 32 



But Jonathan replied to his father Saul and said to him, "Why must he be put to death? What has he done?" 







###### 33 



Then Saul hurled his spear at him to strike and kill him; so Jonathan knew that his father had decided to put David to death. 







###### 34 



Then Jonathan got up from the table in the heat of anger, and did not eat food on the second day of the new moon, because he was worried about David since his father had insulted him. 







###### 35 



Now it came about in the morning that Jonathan went out to the field at the time agreed upon with David, and a little boy _was_ with him. 







###### 36 



He said to his boy, "Run, find now the arrows which I am about to shoot." The boy ran, and he shot [^s]an arrow past him. 







###### 37 



When the boy reached the location of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan called after the boy and said, "Is the arrow not beyond you?" 







###### 38 



Then Jonathan called after the boy, "Hurry, be quick, do not stay!" And Jonathan's boy picked up the arrow and came to his master. 







###### 39 



But the boy was not aware of anything; only Jonathan and David knew about the matter. 







###### 40 



Then Jonathan gave his weapons to his boy and said to him, "Go, bring _them_ to the city." 







###### 41 



When the boy was gone, David got up from the south side, then he fell on his face to the ground and bowed three times. And they kissed each other and wept together, until David _wept_ immeasurably. 







###### 42 



Then Jonathan said to David, "Go [^t]in safety, since we have sworn to each other in the name of the LORD, saying, 'The LORD will be between me and you, and between my [^u]descendants and your [^v]descendants forever.'" [^w]So _David_ set out and went _on his way_, while Jonathan went into the city. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Samuel 20:1 Lit _before_ [^b]: 1 Samuel 20:2 Lit _and he does not uncover my ear_ [^c]: 1 Samuel 20:3 Lit _and said_ [^d]: 1 Samuel 20:3 Lit _about_ [^e]: 1 Samuel 20:4 Lit _your soul says_ [^f]: 1 Samuel 20:7 Lit _says thus_ [^g]: 1 Samuel 20:8 Lit _guilt exists in me_ [^h]: 1 Samuel 20:9 Lit _evil to come on_ [^i]: 1 Samuel 20:10 As in ancient versions; MT _or what your father_ [^j]: 1 Samuel 20:12 Lit _David_ [^k]: 1 Samuel 20:12 Lit _uncover your ear_ [^l]: 1 Samuel 20:13 Lit _Jonathan_ [^m]: 1 Samuel 20:13 Lit _uncover your ear_ [^n]: 1 Samuel 20:22 Lit _say thus_ [^o]: 1 Samuel 20:23 Lit _word_ [^p]: 1 Samuel 20:26 I.e., accident of ritual pollution [^q]: 1 Samuel 20:31 Lit _all the days which_ [^r]: 1 Samuel 20:31 Lit _a son of death_ [^s]: 1 Samuel 20:36 Lit _the_ [^t]: 1 Samuel 20:42 Lit _to peace_ [^u]: 1 Samuel 20:42 Lit _seed_ [^v]: 1 Samuel 20:42 Lit _seed_ [^w]: 1 Samuel 20:42 Ch 21:1 in Heb
