---
Aliases: [1 Samuel 15]
previous: ['1 Sam 14']
up: ['1 Samuel']
next: ['1 Sam 16']
---
# 1 Samuel 15

***








###### 1 



Then Samuel said to Saul, "The LORD sent me to anoint you as king over His people, over Israel; now therefore, listen to the [^a]words of the LORD. 







###### 2 



This is what the LORD of armies says: 'I will [^b]punish Amalek _for_ what he did to Israel, in that he obstructed him on the way while he was coming up from Egypt. 







###### 3 



Now go and strike Amalek and completely destroy everything that he has, and do not spare him; but put to death both man and woman, child and infant, ox and sheep, camel and donkey.'" 







###### 4 



Then Saul summoned the people and [^c]counted them in Telaim: two hundred thousand foot soldiers and ten thousand men of Judah. 







###### 5 



And Saul came to the city of Amalek and set an ambush in the [^d]wadi. 







###### 6 



But Saul said to the Kenites, "Go, get away, go down from among the Amalekites, so that I do not destroy you along with them; for you showed kindness to all the sons of Israel when they went up from Egypt." So the Kenites got away from among the Amalekites. 







###### 7 



Then Saul [^e]defeated the Amalekites, from Havilah [^f]going toward Shur, which is [^g]east of Egypt. 







###### 8 



He captured Agag the king of the Amalekites alive, and completely destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword. 







###### 9 



But Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the sheep, the oxen, the more valuable _animals_, the lambs, and everything that was good, and were unwilling to destroy them completely; but everything despicable and weak, that they completely destroyed. ## Samuel Rebukes Saul 







###### 10 



Then the word of the LORD came to Samuel, saying, 







###### 11 



"I regret that I have made Saul king, because he has turned back from [^h]following Me and has not carried out My commands." And Samuel was furious and cried out to the LORD all night. 







###### 12 



Samuel got up early in the morning to meet Saul; and it was reported to Samuel, saying, "Saul came to Carmel, and behold, he set up a monument for himself, then turned and proceeded on [^i]down to Gilgal." 







###### 13 



So Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said to him, "Blessed are you of the LORD! I have carried out the command of the LORD." 







###### 14 



But Samuel said, "What then is this [^j]bleating of the sheep in my ears, and the [^k]bellowing of the oxen which I hear?" 







###### 15 



Saul said, "They have brought them from the Amalekites, for the people spared the best of the sheep and oxen to sacrifice to the LORD your God; but the rest we have completely destroyed." 







###### 16 



Then Samuel said to Saul, "Stop, and let me inform you of what the LORD said to me last night." And he said to him, "Speak!" 







###### 17 



So Samuel said, "[^l]Is it not _true_, though you were [^m]insignificant in your own eyes, _that_ you _became_ the head of the tribes of Israel? For the LORD anointed you as king over Israel. 







###### 18 



And the LORD sent you on a [^n]mission, and said, 'Go and completely destroy the sinners, the Amalekites, and fight against them until they are eliminated.' 







###### 19 



Why then did you not obey the voice of the LORD? Instead, you loudly rushed upon the spoils and did what was evil in the sight of the LORD!" 







###### 20 



Then Saul said to Samuel, "I did obey the voice of the LORD, for I went on the [^o]mission on which the LORD sent me; and I have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and have completely destroyed the Amalekites. 







###### 21 



But the people took _some_ of the spoils, sheep and oxen, the choicest of the things designated for destruction, to sacrifice to the LORD your God at Gilgal." 







###### 22 



Samuel said, "Does the LORD have as much delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices As in obeying the voice of the LORD? Behold, to obey is better than a sacrifice, _And_ to pay attention is _better_ than the fat of rams. 







###### 23 



For rebellion is _as reprehensible as_ the sin of divination, And insubordination is _as reprehensible as_ false religion and idolatry. Since you have rejected the word of the LORD, He has also rejected you from _being_ king." 







###### 24 



Then Saul said to Samuel, "I have sinned, for I have violated the [^p]command of the LORD and your words, because I feared the people and listened to their voice. 







###### 25 



Now then, please pardon my sin and return with me, so that I may worship the LORD." 







###### 26 



But Samuel said to Saul, "I will not return with you; for you have rejected the word of the LORD, and the LORD has rejected you from being king over Israel." 







###### 27 



Then Samuel turned to go, but _Saul_ grasped the edge of his robe, and it tore off. 







###### 28 



So Samuel said to him, "The LORD has torn the kingdom of Israel from you today and has given it to your neighbor, who is better than you. 







###### 29 



Also the [^q]Glory of Israel will not lie nor change His mind; for He is not a man, that He would change His mind." 







###### 30 



Then _Saul_ said, "I have sinned; _but_ please honor me now before the elders of my people and before _all_ Israel, and go back with me, so that I may worship the LORD your God." 







###### 31 



So Samuel went back following Saul, and Saul worshiped the LORD. 







###### 32 



Then Samuel said, "Bring me Agag, the king of the Amalekites." And Agag came to him [^r]cheerfully. And Agag said, "Surely the bitterness of death is gone!" 







###### 33 



But Samuel said, "As your sword has made women childless, so shall your mother be childless among women." And Samuel cut Agag to pieces before the LORD at Gilgal. 







###### 34 



Then Samuel went to Ramah, but Saul went up to his house at Gibeah of Saul. 







###### 35 



And Samuel did not see Saul again until the day of his death, though Samuel mourned for [^s]Saul. And the LORD regretted that He had made Saul king over Israel. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Samuel 15:1 Lit _sound of the words_ [^b]: 1 Samuel 15:2 Or _visit_ [^c]: 1 Samuel 15:4 Lit _mustered_ [^d]: 1 Samuel 15:5 Or _valley_ [^e]: 1 Samuel 15:7 Lit _struck_ [^f]: 1 Samuel 15:7 Lit _as you go_ [^g]: 1 Samuel 15:7 Lit _before_ [^h]: 1 Samuel 15:11 Lit _after_ [^i]: 1 Samuel 15:12 Lit _and went down_ [^j]: 1 Samuel 15:14 Lit _sound_ [^k]: 1 Samuel 15:14 Lit _sound_ [^l]: 1 Samuel 15:17 Or _Though you were..., did you not_ become [^m]: 1 Samuel 15:17 Lit _small_ [^n]: 1 Samuel 15:18 Lit _way_ [^o]: 1 Samuel 15:20 Lit _way_ [^p]: 1 Samuel 15:24 Lit _mouth_ [^q]: 1 Samuel 15:29 Or _Splendor_ [^r]: 1 Samuel 15:32 Or _in chains_ [^s]: 1 Samuel 15:35 I.e., God’s rejection of Saul
