---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 24]
previous: ['1 Chr 23']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 25']
---
# 1 Chronicles 24

***








###### 1 



Now the divisions of the [^a]descendants of Aaron _were these_: the sons of Aaron _were_ Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 







###### 2 



But Nadab and Abihu died before their father and had no [^b]sons. So Eleazar and Ithamar served as priests. 







###### 3 



David, with Zadok of the sons of Eleazar and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, divided them according to their offices [^c]for their ministry. 







###### 4 



Since more chief men were found from the [^d]descendants of Eleazar than the [^e]descendants of Ithamar, they divided them this way: _there were_ sixteen heads of fathers' households of the [^f]descendants of Eleazar, and eight of the [^g]descendants of Ithamar according to their fathers' households. 







###### 5 



So they were divided by lot, the one as the other; for they were officers of the sanctuary and officers of God, both from the [^h]descendants of Eleazar and the [^i]descendants of Ithamar. 







###### 6 



Shemaiah, the son of Nethanel the scribe, from the Levites, recorded them in the presence of the king, the leaders, Zadok the priest, Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, and the heads of the fathers' _households_ of the priests and the Levites; one father's household taken for Eleazar and one taken for Ithamar. 







###### 7 



Now the first lot came out for Jehoiarib, the second for Jedaiah, 







###### 8 



the third for Harim, the fourth for Seorim, 







###### 9 



the fifth for Malchijah, the sixth for Mijamin, 







###### 10 



the seventh for Hakkoz, the eighth for Abijah, 







###### 11 



the ninth for Jeshua, the tenth for Shecaniah, 







###### 12 



the eleventh for Eliashib, the twelfth for Jakim, 







###### 13 



the thirteenth for Huppah, the fourteenth for Jeshebeab, 







###### 14 



the fifteenth for Bilgah, the sixteenth for Immer, 







###### 15 



the seventeenth for Hezir, the eighteenth for Happizzez, 







###### 16 



the nineteenth for Pethahiah, the twentieth for Jehezkel, 







###### 17 



the twenty-first for Jachin, the twenty-second for Gamul, 







###### 18 



the twenty-third for Delaiah, _and_ the twenty-fourth for Maaziah. 







###### 19 



These were their offices for their ministry when _they_ entered the house of the LORD according to the ordinance _given_ to them through their father Aaron, just as the LORD God of Israel had commanded him. 







###### 20 



Now for the rest of the sons of Levi: of the sons of Amram, [^j]Shubael; of the sons of Shubael, Jehdeiah. 







###### 21 



Of Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah, Isshiah, the first. 







###### 22 



Of the Izharites, [^k]Shelomoth; of the sons of Shelomoth, Jahath. 







###### 23 



The sons _of Hebron_: Jeriah _the first_, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth. 







###### 24 



_Of_ the sons of Uzziel, Micah; of the sons of Micah, Shamir. 







###### 25 



The brother of Micah, Isshiah; of the sons of Isshiah, Zechariah. 







###### 26 



The sons of Merari, Mahli and Mushi; the sons of Jaaziah, Beno. 







###### 27 



The sons of Merari: by Jaaziah _were_ Beno, Shoham, Zaccur, and Ibri. 







###### 28 



By Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons. 







###### 29 



By Kish: the sons of Kish, Jerahmeel. 







###### 30 



The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. These _were_ the sons of the Levites according to their fathers' households. 







###### 31 



These also cast lots just as their relatives, the sons of Aaron _did_ in the presence of David the king, Zadok, Ahimelech, and the heads of the fathers' _households_ of the priests and of the Levites--the head of fathers' _households_ as well as those of his younger brother. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 24:1 Lit _sons_ [^b]: 1 Chronicles 24:2 Or _children_ [^c]: 1 Chronicles 24:3 Lit _in their service_ [^d]: 1 Chronicles 24:4 Lit _sons_ [^e]: 1 Chronicles 24:4 Lit _sons_ [^f]: 1 Chronicles 24:4 Lit _sons_ [^g]: 1 Chronicles 24:4 Lit _sons_ [^h]: 1 Chronicles 24:5 Lit _sons_ [^i]: 1 Chronicles 24:5 Lit _sons_ [^j]: 1 Chronicles 24:20 In 23:16, _Shebuel_ [^k]: 1 Chronicles 24:22 In 23:18, _Shelomith_
