---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 12]
previous: ['1 Chr 11']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 13']
---
# 1 Chronicles 12

***








###### 1 



Now these are the _men_ who came to David at Ziklag, while he was still restricted because of Saul the son of Kish; and they were among the mighty men who helped _him_ in war. 







###### 2 



They were equipped with bows, using both the right hand and the left _to sling_ stones and _shoot_ arrows with the bow; _they were_ Saul's kinsmen from Benjamin. 







###### 3 



The chief was Ahiezer, then Joash, the sons of Shemaah the Gibeathite; and Jeziel and Pelet, the sons of Azmaveth, and Beracah, and Jehu the Anathothite, 







###### 4 



and Ishmaiah the Gibeonite, a mighty man among the thirty, and in charge of the thirty. [^a]Then Jeremiah, Jahaziel, Johanan, Jozabad the Gederathite, 







###### 5 



[^b]Eluzai, Jerimoth, Bealiah, Shemariah, Shephatiah the Haruphite, 







###### 6 



Elkanah, Isshiah, Azarel, Joezer, Jashobeam, the Korahites, 







###### 7 



and Joelah and Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham of Gedor. 







###### 8 



From the Gadites valiant mighty men went over to David at the stronghold in the wilderness, men trained for war who could handle a large shield and spear, whose faces were _like_ the faces of lions, and _they were_ as swift as the gazelles on the mountains. 







###### 9 



Ezer _was_ the first, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third, 







###### 10 



Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth, 







###### 11 



Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh, 







###### 12 



Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth, 







###### 13 



Jeremiah the tenth, _and_ Machbannai, the eleventh. 







###### 14 



These men from the sons of Gad were [^c]captains of the army; the one who was least was _equal_ to a hundred, and the greatest, to a thousand. 







###### 15 



These are the ones who crossed the Jordan in the first month, when it was overflowing all its banks, and they put to flight all those in the valleys, to the east and to the west. 







###### 16 



Then some of the sons of Benjamin and Judah came to the stronghold to David. 







###### 17 



David went out to meet them, and said to them, "If you come peacefully to help me, my heart shall be united with you; but if to betray me to my enemies, since there is no [^d]wrong in my hands, may the God of our fathers look on _it_ and decide." 







###### 18 



Then the Spirit [^e]covered Amasai like clothing, the chief of the thirty; _and he said_, "_We are_ yours, David, And _are_ with you, son of Jesse! Peace, peace to you, And peace to him who helps you; Indeed, your God helps you!" Then David received them and made them [^f]captains of the troops. 







###### 19 



From Manasseh some also defected to David when he was about to go to battle with the Philistines against Saul. But they did not help them, because the governors of the Philistines sent him away after consultation, saying, "At _the cost of_ our heads he might defect to his master Saul." 







###### 20 



As he was going to Ziklag, _men_ from Manasseh defected to him: Adnah, Jozabad, Jediael, Michael, Jozabad, Elihu, and Zillethai, [^g]captains of thousands who belonged to Manasseh. 







###### 21 



They helped David against the band of raiders, for they were all valiant mighty men, and were captains in the army. 







###### 22 



For day by day _men_ came to David to help him, until there was a great army like the army of God. ## Supporters Gathered at Hebron 







###### 23 



Now these are the numbers of the [^h]divisions equipped for war, who came to David at Hebron, to turn the kingdom of Saul to him, according to the [^i]word of the LORD. 







###### 24 



The sons of Judah who carried shield and spear _numbered_ 6,800, equipped for war. 







###### 25 



From the sons of Simeon, valiant mighty men of war, 7,100. 







###### 26 



From the sons of Levi, 4,600. 







###### 27 



Now Jehoiada was the leader of _the house of_ Aaron, and with him were 3,700, 







###### 28 



also Zadok, a young valiant mighty man, and _from_ his father's house, twenty-two captains. 







###### 29 



From the sons of Benjamin, Saul's kinsmen, three thousand; for until now the majority of them had kept their allegiance to the house of Saul. 







###### 30 



From the sons of Ephraim 20,800, valiant mighty men, famous men in their fathers' households. 







###### 31 



From the half-tribe of Manasseh eighteen thousand, who were designated by name to come and make David king. 







###### 32 



From the sons of Issachar, men who understood the times, with knowledge of what Israel should do, their chiefs _were_ two hundred; and all their kinsmen _were_ at their command. 







###### 33 



From Zebulun, there were fifty thousand who went out in the army, who could draw up in battle formation with all kinds of weapons of war and helped _David_ [^j]with an undivided heart. 







###### 34 



From Naphtali _there were_ a thousand captains, and with them thirty-seven thousand with shield and spear. 







###### 35 



From the Danites who could draw up in battle formation, _there were_ 28,600. 







###### 36 



From Asher _there were_ forty thousand who went out in the army to draw up in battle formation. 







###### 37 



From the other side of the Jordan, from the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, _there were_ 120,000 with all _kinds_ of weapons of war for the battle. 







###### 38 



All of these, being men of war who helped in battle formation, came to Hebron with a perfect heart to make David king over all Israel; and all the rest of Israel also were of one mind to make David king. 







###### 39 



They were there with David for three days, eating and drinking, for their kinsmen had prepared for them. 







###### 40 



Moreover, those who were near to them, as far as Issachar, Zebulun, and Naphtali, brought food on donkeys, camels, mules, and on oxen, great quantities of flour cakes, fig cakes and bunches of raisins, wine, oil, oxen, and sheep. There was joy indeed in Israel. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 12:4 In Heb the beginning of v 5, making 41 vv in this ch [^b]: 1 Chronicles 12:5 V 6 in Heb [^c]: 1 Chronicles 12:14 Or _chiefs_ [^d]: 1 Chronicles 12:17 Lit _violence_ [^e]: 1 Chronicles 12:18 Lit _clothed_ [^f]: 1 Chronicles 12:18 Or _commanders_ [^g]: 1 Chronicles 12:20 Or _chiefs_ [^h]: 1 Chronicles 12:23 Lit _heads_ [^i]: 1 Chronicles 12:23 Lit _mouth_ [^j]: 1 Chronicles 12:33 Lit _not heart and heart_
