---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 23]
previous: ['1 Chr 22']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 24']
---
# 1 Chronicles 23

***








###### 1 



Now when David [^a]reached old age, he made his son Solomon king over Israel. 







###### 2 



And he gathered together all the leaders of Israel with the priests and the Levites. ## Offices of the Levites 







###### 3 



Now the Levites were counted from thirty years old and upward, and their number by [^b]head count of men was thirty-eight thousand. 







###### 4 



Of these, twenty-four thousand were to oversee the work of the house of the LORD; and six thousand _were_ officers and judges, 







###### 5 



and four thousand _were_ gatekeepers, and four thousand _were_ praising the LORD with the instruments which [^c]David made for giving praise. 







###### 6 



David divided them into divisions according to the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. ## Gershonites 







###### 7 



Of the Gershonites _there were_ [^d]Ladan and Shimei. 







###### 8 



The sons of Ladan _were_ Jehiel the first, and Zetham and Joel, three. 







###### 9 



The sons of Shimei _were_ Shelomoth, Haziel, and Haran, three. These were the heads of the fathers' _households_ of Ladan. 







###### 10 



The sons of Shimei _were_ Jahath, [^e]Zina, Jeush, and Beriah. These four _were_ the sons of Shimei. 







###### 11 



Jahath was the first and Zizah the second; but Jeush and Beriah did not have many sons, so they became a father's household, one group for duty. ## Kohathites 







###### 12 



The sons of Kohath were four _in number_: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. 







###### 13 



The sons of Amram were Aaron and Moses. And Aaron was set apart to sanctify him as most holy, he and his sons forever, to burn incense before the LORD, to serve Him and bless in His name forever. 







###### 14 



But _as for_ Moses, the man of God, his sons were named among the tribe of Levi. 







###### 15 



The sons of Moses _were_ Gershom and Eliezer. 







###### 16 



The [^f]son of Gershom _was_ [^g]Shebuel the chief. 







###### 17 



The [^h]son of Eliezer was Rehabiah the chief; and Eliezer had no other sons, but the sons of Rehabiah were very many. 







###### 18 



The [^i]son of Izhar was [^j]Shelomith the chief. 







###### 19 



The sons of Hebron _were_ Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth. 







###### 20 



The sons of Uzziel _were_ Micah the first and Isshiah the second. ## Merarites 







###### 21 



The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli _were_ Eleazar and Kish. 







###### 22 



Eleazar died and had no sons, but only daughters; so their relatives, the sons of Kish, took them _as wives_. 







###### 23 



The sons of Mushi _were_ three: Mahli, Eder, and Jeremoth. ## Duties Revised 







###### 24 



These were the sons of Levi according to their fathers' households, the heads of the fathers' _households_ of those among them who were [^k]counted, in the number of names by their [^l]head count, doing the work for the service of the house of the LORD, from twenty years old and upward. 







###### 25 



For David said, "The LORD God of Israel has given rest to His people, and He dwells in Jerusalem forever. 







###### 26 



Also, the Levites will no longer need to carry the tabernacle and all its utensils for its service." 







###### 27 



For by the last words of David, the sons of Levi _were_ counted from twenty years old and upward. 







###### 28 



For their office is [^m]to assist the sons of Aaron with the service of the house of the LORD, in the courtyards and in the chambers, and in the purification of all holy things, and the work of the service of the house of God, 







###### 29 



and with the showbread, and the fine flour for a grain offering, and unleavened wafers, or _what is baked in_ the pan or what is well-mixed, and all measures of volume and size. 







###### 30 



They are to stand every morning to thank and to praise the LORD, and likewise at evening, 







###### 31 



and to offer all burnt offerings to the LORD, on the Sabbaths, the new moons and the appointed festivals, in the number _determined_ by the ordinance concerning them, continually before the LORD. 







###### 32 



So they are to perform the [^n]duties of the tent of meeting, the holy place, and _of assisting_ the sons of Aaron their relatives, for the service of the house of the LORD. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 23:1 Lit _became old and sated with days_ [^b]: 1 Chronicles 23:3 Lit _their heads_ [^c]: 1 Chronicles 23:5 Lit _I made_ [^d]: 1 Chronicles 23:7 In Ex 6:17, _Libni_ [^e]: 1 Chronicles 23:10 In v 11, _Zizah_ [^f]: 1 Chronicles 23:16 Lit _sons_ [^g]: 1 Chronicles 23:16 In 24:20, _Shubael_ [^h]: 1 Chronicles 23:17 Lit _sons...were_ [^i]: 1 Chronicles 23:18 Lit _sons_ [^j]: 1 Chronicles 23:18 In 24:22, _Shelomoth_ [^k]: 1 Chronicles 23:24 Lit _mustered_ [^l]: 1 Chronicles 23:24 Lit _heads_ [^m]: 1 Chronicles 23:28 Lit _at the hand of_ [^n]: 1 Chronicles 23:32 Lit _duty of...the duty of..._
