---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 26]
previous: ['1 Chr 25']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 27']
---
# 1 Chronicles 26

***








###### 1 



For the divisions of the gatekeepers _there were_ of the Korahites, [^a]Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of [^b]Asaph. 







###### 2 



Meshelemiah had sons: Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth, 







###### 3 



Elam the fifth, Johanan the sixth, _and_ Eliehoenai the seventh. 







###### 4 



Obed-edom had sons: Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, Sacar the fourth, Nethanel the fifth, 







###### 5 



Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, _and_ Peullethai the eighth; God had indeed blessed him. 







###### 6 



Also to his son Shemaiah sons were born who ruled over the house of their father, for they were valiant mighty men. 







###### 7 



The sons of Shemaiah _were_ Othni, Rephael, Obed, and Elzabad, whose brothers, Elihu and Semachiah, were valiant men. 







###### 8 



All these _were_ of the sons of Obed-edom; they and their sons and relatives _were_ able men with strength for the service, sixty-two from Obed-edom. 







###### 9 



Meshelemiah had sons and relatives, eighteen valiant men. 







###### 10 



Also Hosah, _one_ of the sons of Merari had sons: Shimri the first (although he was not the firstborn, his father made him first), 







###### 11 



Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, _and_ Zechariah the fourth; the sons and relatives of Hosah _were_ thirteen in all. 







###### 12 



To these divisions of the gatekeepers, to the chief men, _were given_ duties like their relatives, to serve in the house of the LORD. 







###### 13 



They cast lots, the small and the great alike, according to their fathers' households, for every gate. 







###### 14 



The lot to the east fell to [^c]Shelemiah. Then they cast lots _for_ his son Zechariah, a counselor with insight, and his lot came out to the north. 







###### 15 



For Obed-edom _it fell_ to the south, and to his sons went the storehouse. 







###### 16 



For Shuppim and Hosah _it was_ to the west, by the gate of Shallecheth, on the ascending highway. Guard corresponded to guard. 







###### 17 



On the east there were six Levites, on the north four daily, on the south four daily, and at the storehouse two by two. 







###### 18 



At the [^d]annex on the west _there were_ four at the highway and two at the annex. 







###### 19 



These were the divisions of the gatekeepers of the sons of Korah and of the sons of Merari. ## Keepers of the Treasure 







###### 20 



[^e]The Levites, their relatives, were in charge of the treasures of the house of God and of the treasures of the dedicated gifts. 







###### 21 



The sons of Ladan, the sons of the Gershonites belonging to Ladan, _namely_, the Jehielites, _were_ the heads of the fathers' _households_, belonging to Ladan the Gershonite. 







###### 22 



The sons of Jehieli, Zetham, and his brother Joel, were in charge of the treasures of the house of the LORD. 







###### 23 



As for the Amramites, the Izharites, the Hebronites, and the Uzzielites, 







###### 24 



Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was officer over the treasures. 







###### 25 



His relatives by Eliezer _were_ Rehabiah his son, Jeshaiah his son, Joram his son, Zichri his son, and Shelomoth his son. 







###### 26 



This Shelomoth and his relatives were in charge of all the treasures of the dedicated gifts which King David and the heads of the fathers' _households_, the commanders of thousands and hundreds, and the commanders of the army, had dedicated. 







###### 27 



They dedicated [^f]part of the spoils won in battles to repair the house of the LORD. 







###### 28 



And all that Samuel the seer had dedicated, and Saul the son of Kish, Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah, everyone who had dedicated _anything, all of this_ was [^g]under the care of [^h]Shelomoth and his relatives. ## Outside Duties 







###### 29 



As for the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were _assigned_ to outside duties for Israel, as officers and judges. 







###### 30 



As for the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his relatives, 1,700 capable men, [^i]were responsible for the affairs of Israel [^j]west of the Jordan, for all the work of the LORD and the service of the king. 







###### 31 



As for the Hebronites, Jerijah the chief [^k](these Hebronites were sought out according to their genealogies and fathers' _households_, in the fortieth year of David's reign, and men of outstanding capability were found among them at Jazer of Gilead) 







###### 32 



and his relatives, capable men, _numbered_ 2,700, heads of fathers' _households_. And King David appointed them as overseers of the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of the Manassites concerning [^l]all the affairs of God and of the king. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 26:1 In v 14, _Shelemiah_ [^b]: 1 Chronicles 26:1 In 9:19, _Ebiasaph_ [^c]: 1 Chronicles 26:14 In 9:17, _Shallum_ [^d]: 1 Chronicles 26:18 Possibly _court_ or _colonnade_ [^e]: 1 Chronicles 26:20 As in LXX; MT _As for the Levites, Ahijah had_ [^f]: 1 Chronicles 26:27 Heb _from the battles and from the spoils_ [^g]: 1 Chronicles 26:28 Lit _on the hand_ [^h]: 1 Chronicles 26:28 Heb _Shelomith_ [^i]: 1 Chronicles 26:30 Lit _were over_ [^j]: 1 Chronicles 26:30 Lit _beyond the Jordan westward_ [^k]: 1 Chronicles 26:31 Heb _according to the Hebronites...father’s households_ [^l]: 1 Chronicles 26:32 Lit _every matter of God and matter of the king_
