---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 10]
previous: ['1 Chr 9']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 11']
---
# 1 Chronicles 10

***








###### 1 



Now the Philistines fought against Israel, and the men of Israel fled from the Philistines but fell fatally wounded on Mount Gilboa. 







###### 2 



And the Philistines also overtook Saul and his sons, and the Philistines [^a]killed Jonathan, [^b]Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul. 







###### 3 



The battle became severe against Saul, and the archers found him; and he was wounded by the archers. 







###### 4 



Then Saul said to his armor bearer, "Draw your sword and thrust me through with it, otherwise these uncircumcised _Philistines_ will come and abuse me." But his armor bearer would not, for he was very afraid. So Saul took his _own_ sword and fell on it. 







###### 5 



When his armor bearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell on his sword and died. 







###### 6 



So Saul died with his three sons, and all _those_ of his house died together. 







###### 7 



When all the people of Israel who were in the valley saw that they had fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they abandoned their cities and fled; and the Philistines came and lived in them. 







###### 8 



It came about the next day, when the Philistines came to strip those killed, that they found Saul and his sons fallen on Mount Gilboa. 







###### 9 



So they stripped him and took his head and his armor and sent _messengers_ around the land of the Philistines to carry the good news to their idols and to the people. 







###### 10 



They put his armor in the house of their gods and [^c]impaled his head in the house of Dagon. ## Jabesh-gilead's Tribute to Saul 







###### 11 



When all Jabesh-gilead heard everything that the Philistines had done to Saul, 







###### 12 



all the valiant men got up and took away the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons, and brought them to Jabesh; and they buried their bones under the oak in Jabesh, and fasted for seven days. 







###### 13 



So Saul died for his unfaithfulness which he committed against the LORD, because of the word of the LORD which he did not keep; and also because he asked _counsel_ of a medium, making inquiry _of her_, 







###### 14 



and did not inquire of the LORD. Therefore He killed him and turned the kingdom over to David, the son of Jesse. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 10:2 Lit _struck_ [^b]: 1 Chronicles 10:2 In 1 Sam 14:49, _Ishvi_ [^c]: 1 Chronicles 10:10 Or _pinned up_
