---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 27]
previous: ['1 Chr 26']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 28']
---
# 1 Chronicles 27

***








###### 1 



Now _this is_ the number of the sons of Israel, the heads of fathers' _households_, the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, and their officers who served the king in all the affairs of the divisions which came in and went out month by month throughout the months of the year, each division _numbering_ twenty-four thousand: 







###### 2 



Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel [^a]was in charge of the first division for the first month; and in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 







###### 3 



_He was_ from the sons of Perez, _and was_ chief of all the commanders of the army for the first month. 







###### 4 



Dodai the Ahohite and his division was in charge of the division for the second month, Mikloth _being_ the chief officer; and in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 







###### 5 



The third commander of the army for the third month _was_ Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada the priest, _as_ chief; and in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 







###### 6 



This Benaiah _was_ the mighty man of the thirty, and was in charge of thirty; and over his division was his son Ammizabad. 







###### 7 



The fourth, for the fourth month _was_ Asahel the brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him; and in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 







###### 8 



The fifth, for the fifth month _was_ the commander Shamhuth the Izrahite; and in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 







###### 9 



The sixth, for the sixth month _was_ Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite; and in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 







###### 10 



The seventh, for the seventh month _was_ Helez the Pelonite of the sons of Ephraim; and in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 







###### 11 



The eighth, for the eighth month _was_ Sibbecai the Hushathite of the Zerahites; and in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 







###### 12 



The ninth, for the ninth month _was_ Abiezer the Anathothite of the Benjaminites; and in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 







###### 13 



The tenth, for the tenth month _was_ Maharai the Netophathite of the Zerahites; and in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 







###### 14 



The eleventh, for the eleventh month _was_ Benaiah the Pirathonite of the sons of Ephraim; and in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. 







###### 15 



The twelfth, for the twelfth month _was_ Heldai the Netophathite of Othniel; and in his division _were_ twenty-four thousand. ## Chief Officers of the Tribes 







###### 16 



Now in charge of the tribes of Israel: chief officer for the Reubenites was Eliezer the son of Zichri; for the Simeonites, Shephatiah the son of Maacah; 







###### 17 



for Levi, Hashabiah the son of Kemuel; for Aaron, Zadok; 







###### 18 



for Judah, Elihu, _one_ of David's brothers; for Issachar, Omri the son of Michael; 







###### 19 



for Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah; for Naphtali, Jeremoth the son of Azriel; 







###### 20 



for the sons of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Azaziah; for the half-tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah; 







###### 21 



for the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah; for Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner; 







###### 22 



for Dan, Azarel the son of Jeroham. These _were_ the leaders of the tribes of Israel. 







###### 23 



But David did not [^b]count those twenty years of age and under, because the LORD had said He would multiply Israel as the stars of heaven. 







###### 24 



Joab the son of Zeruiah had begun to count _them_, but did not finish; and because of this, wrath came upon Israel, and the number was not included in the account of the chronicles of King David. ## Various Overseers 







###### 25 



Now Azmaveth the son of Adiel was responsible for the king's storehouses. And Jonathan the son of Uzziah was responsible for the storehouses in the country, the cities, the villages, and the towers. 







###### 26 



Ezri the son of Chelub was responsible for the [^c]agricultural workers who tilled the soil. 







###### 27 



Shimei the Ramathite was responsible for the vineyards; and Zabdi the Shiphmite was responsible for the [^d]produce of the vineyards _stored_ in the wine cellars. 







###### 28 



Baal-hanan the Gederite was responsible for the olive and sycamore trees in the [^e]Shephelah; and Joash was responsible for the stores of oil. 







###### 29 



Shitrai the Sharonite was responsible for the cattle which were grazing in Sharon; and Shaphat the son of Adlai was responsible for the cattle in the valleys. 







###### 30 



Obil the Ishmaelite was responsible for the camels; and Jehdeiah the Meronothite was responsible for the donkeys. 







###### 31 



Jaziz the Hagrite was responsible for the flocks. All these were [^f]overseers of the property which belonged to King David. ## Counselors 







###### 32 



Also Jonathan, David's uncle, _was_ a counselor, a man of understanding, and a scribe; and Jehiel the son of Hachmoni [^g]tutored the king's sons. 







###### 33 



Ahithophel _was_ counselor to the king; and Hushai the Archite _was_ the king's friend. 







###### 34 



Jehoiada the son of Benaiah, and Abiathar [^h]succeeded Ahithophel; and Joab was the commander of the king's army. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 27:2 Lit _was over_, and so throughout the ch [^b]: 1 Chronicles 27:23 Lit _take their number of_ [^c]: 1 Chronicles 27:26 Lit _doers of the work of the field for the work of_... [^d]: 1 Chronicles 27:27 Lit _what was in the vineyards_ [^e]: 1 Chronicles 27:28 Or _lowlands_ [^f]: 1 Chronicles 27:31 Or _rulers_ [^g]: 1 Chronicles 27:32 Lit _was with_ [^h]: 1 Chronicles 27:34 Lit _after_
