---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 13]
previous: ['1 Chr 12']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 14']
---
# 1 Chronicles 13

***








###### 1 



Then David consulted with the captains of the thousands and the hundreds, with every leader. 







###### 2 



David said to all the assembly of Israel, "If it _seems_ good to you, and if it is from the LORD our God, [^a]let us send _word_ everywhere to our kinsmen who remain in all the land of Israel, and to the priests and Levites who are with them in their cities with pasture lands, that they meet with us; 







###### 3 



and [^b]let us bring back the ark of our God to us, since we did not seek it in the days of Saul." 







###### 4 



Then all the assembly said that they would do so, for [^c]this was right in the eyes of all the people. 







###### 5 



So David assembled all Israel together, from the Shihor of Egypt to the entrance of Hamath, to bring the ark of God from Kiriath-jearim. 







###### 6 



David and all Israel went up to Baalah, _that is_, to Kiriath-jearim, which belongs to Judah, to bring up from there the ark of God, the LORD who is enthroned _above_ the cherubim, where His name is called. 







###### 7 



And they [^d]carried the ark of God on a new cart from the house of Abinadab, and Uzza and Ahio drove the cart. 







###### 8 



David and all Israel were celebrating before God with all _their_ might, with songs and with lyres, harps, tambourines, cymbals, and trumpets. 







###### 9 



When they came to the threshing floor of Chidon, Uzza put out his hand to hold the ark, because the oxen nearly overturned _it_. 







###### 10 



But the anger of the LORD burned against Uzza, so He struck him because he had put out his hand toward the ark; and he died there before God. 







###### 11 



Then David became angry because [^e]of the LORD's outburst against Uzza; and he called that place [^f]Perez-uzza _as it is_ to this day. 







###### 12 



David was afraid of God that day, saying, "How can I bring the ark of God _home_ to me?" 







###### 13 



So David did not take the ark with him to the city of David, but took it aside to the house of Obed-edom the Gittite. 







###### 14 



And the ark of God remained with the family of Obed-edom in his house for three months; and the LORD blessed the family of Obed-edom and all that he had. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 13:2 Indicating a proposal, not a request [^b]: 1 Chronicles 13:3 See note v 2 [^c]: 1 Chronicles 13:4 Lit _the thing_ [^d]: 1 Chronicles 13:7 Lit _caused the ark of God to ride_ [^e]: 1 Chronicles 13:11 Lit _the _Lord_ had made an outburst_ [^f]: 1 Chronicles 13:11 I.e., the outburst _against_ Uzza
