---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 14]
previous: ['1 Chr 13']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 15']
---
# 1 Chronicles 14

***








###### 1 



Now Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David with cedar trees, masons, and carpenters, to build a house for him. 







###### 2 



And David realized that the LORD had established him as king over Israel, _and_ that his kingdom was highly exalted, for the sake of His people Israel. 







###### 3 



Then David took more wives in Jerusalem, and David fathered more sons and daughters. 







###### 4 



These are the names of the children [^a]born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon, 







###### 5 



Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet, 







###### 6 



Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia, 







###### 7 



Elishama, Beeliada, and Eliphelet. ## Philistines Defeated 







###### 8 



When the Philistines heard that David had been anointed king over all Israel, all the Philistines went up in search of David; and David heard about it and went out against them. 







###### 9 



Now the Philistines had come and carried out a raid in the Valley of Rephaim. 







###### 10 



David inquired of God, saying, "Shall I go up against the Philistines? And will You hand them over to me?" Then the LORD said to him, "Go up, for I will hand them over to you." 







###### 11 



So they came up to Baal-perazim, and David [^b]defeated them there; and David said, "God has broken through my enemies by my hand, like the breakthrough of waters." Therefore they named that place [^c]Baal-perazim. 







###### 12 



They abandoned their gods there; so David gave the order and they were burned with fire. 







###### 13 



The Philistines carried out yet another raid in the valley. 







###### 14 



David inquired again of God, and God said to him, "You shall not go up after them; circle around [^d]behind them and come at them in front of the baka-shrubs. 







###### 15 



When you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the baka-shrubs, then you shall go out to battle, for God will have gone out before you to strike the army of the Philistines." 







###### 16 



David did just as God had commanded him, and they defeated the army of the Philistines from [^e]Gibeon even as far as Gezer. 







###### 17 



Then the fame of David spread in all the lands; and the LORD brought the fear of him on all the nations. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 14:4 Lit _were to_ [^b]: 1 Chronicles 14:11 Lit _struck_ [^c]: 1 Chronicles 14:11 I.e., the master of breakthroughs [^d]: 1 Chronicles 14:14 Lit _from upon_ [^e]: 1 Chronicles 14:16 In 2 Sam 5:25, _Geba_
