---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 17]
previous: ['1 Chr 16']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 18']
---
# 1 Chronicles 17

***








###### 1 



And it came about, when David lived in his house, that David said to Nathan the prophet, "Look, I am living in a house of cedar, but the ark of the covenant of the LORD is under tent curtains." 







###### 2 



Then Nathan said to David, "Do whatever is in your heart, for God is with you." 







###### 3 



But it happened that same night, that the word of God came to Nathan, saying, 







###### 4 



"Go and tell David My servant, 'This is what the LORD says: "You shall not build a house for Me to dwell in; 







###### 5 



for I have not dwelt in a house since the day that I brought up Israel to this day, but I have [^a]gone from tent to tent and from _one_ dwelling place _to another_. 







###### 6 



In all places where I have walked with all Israel, have I spoken a word with any of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to shepherd My people, saying, 'Why have you not built Me a house of cedar?'"' 







###### 7 



Now, therefore, this is what you shall say to My servant David: 'This is what the LORD of armies says: "I took you from the pasture, from following the sheep, to be leader over My people Israel. 







###### 8 



I have been with you wherever you have gone, and have eliminated all your enemies from you; and I will make for you a name like the name of the great ones who are on the earth. 







###### 9 



And I will appoint a place for My people Israel, and will plant them _there_, so that they may live in their own place and not tremble _with anxiety_ again; and the [^b]wicked will not make them waste away anymore as _they did_ previously, 







###### 10 



even from the day that I commanded judges _to be_ over My people Israel. And I will subdue all your enemies. Moreover, I tell you that the LORD will build a house for you. 







###### 11 



When your days are fulfilled that you must [^c]go _to be_ with your fathers, then I will set up _one of_ your [^d]descendants after you, who will be from your sons; and I will establish his kingdom. 







###### 12 



He shall build for Me a house, and I will establish his throne forever. 







###### 13 



I will be his father and he shall be My son; and I will not take My favor away from him, as I took it from him who was before you. 







###### 14 



But I will settle him in My house and in My kingdom forever, and his throne will be established forever."'" 







###### 15 



According to all these words and according to all of this vision, so Nathan spoke to David. ## David's Prayer in Response 







###### 16 



Then King David came in and sat before the LORD, and said, "Who am I, LORD God, and what is my house that You have brought me this far? 







###### 17 



This was a small thing in Your eyes, God; but You have spoken of Your servant's house for a great while to come, and have viewed me according to the standard of a person of high degree, LORD God. 







###### 18 



What more can David still _say_ to You concerning the honor _bestowed_ on Your servant? For You know Your servant. 







###### 19 



LORD, for Your servant's sake, and according to Your own heart, You have accomplished all this greatness, to make known all these great things. 







###### 20 



LORD, there is none like You, nor is there any God besides You, according to everything that we have heard with our ears. 







###### 21 



And what one nation on the earth is like Your people Israel, whom God went to redeem for Himself _as_ a people, to make for You a name by great and awesome things, by driving out nations from before Your people, whom You redeemed from Egypt? 







###### 22 



For You have made Your people Israel Your own people forever, and You, LORD, became their God. 







###### 23 



"Now, LORD, let the word that You have spoken concerning Your servant and concerning his house be established forever, and do just as You have spoken. 







###### 24 



Let Your name be established and be great forever, saying, 'The LORD of armies is the God of Israel, a God to Israel; and the house of Your servant David is established before You.' 







###### 25 



For You, my God, have revealed to Your servant that You will build him a house; therefore Your servant has found _courage_ to pray before You. 







###### 26 



Now, LORD, You are God, and have [^e]promised this good thing to Your servant. 







###### 27 



And now You have decided to bless the house of Your servant, that it may [^f]continue forever before You; for You, LORD, have blessed, and it is blessed forever." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 17:5 Lit _been_ [^b]: 1 Chronicles 17:9 Lit _sons of injustice_ [^c]: 1 Chronicles 17:11 I.e., die [^d]: 1 Chronicles 17:11 Lit _seed_ [^e]: 1 Chronicles 17:26 Lit _said_ [^f]: 1 Chronicles 17:27 Lit _be_
