---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 16]
previous: ['1 Chr 15']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 17']
---
# 1 Chronicles 16

***








###### 1 



And they brought in the ark of God and placed it inside the tent which David had pitched for it, and they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before God. 







###### 2 



When David had finished offering the burnt offering and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD. 







###### 3 



Then he distributed to everyone of Israel, both men and women, to everyone a loaf of bread, a portion _of meat_, and a raisin cake. 







###### 4 



He appointed some of the Levites _as_ ministers before the ark of the LORD, to celebrate and to thank and praise the LORD God of Israel: 







###### 5 



Asaph the chief, and second to him Zechariah, _then_ [^a]Jeiel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-edom, and Jeiel, with _musical_ instruments, harps, _and_ lyres; also Asaph _played_ loud-sounding cymbals, 







###### 6 



and the priests Benaiah and Jahaziel _blew_ trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God. 







###### 7 



Then on that day David first assigned [^b]Asaph and his relatives to give thanks to the LORD. ## Psalm of Thanksgiving 







###### 8 



Give thanks to the LORD, call upon His name; Make His deeds known among the peoples. 







###### 9 



Sing to Him, sing praises to Him; [^c]Speak of all His [^d]wonders. 







###### 10 



Boast in His holy name; Let the heart of those who seek the LORD be joyful. 







###### 11 



Seek the LORD and His strength; Seek His face continually. 







###### 12 



Remember His wonderful deeds which He has done, His marvels and the judgments from His mouth, 







###### 13 



_You_ [^e]descendants of Israel His servant, Sons of Jacob, His chosen ones! 







###### 14 



He is the LORD our God; His judgments are in all the earth. 







###### 15 



Remember His covenant forever, The word which He commanded to a thousand generations, 







###### 16 



_The covenant_ which He made with Abraham, And His oath to Isaac. 







###### 17 



He also confirmed it to Jacob as a statute, To Israel as an everlasting covenant, 







###### 18 



Saying, "To you I will give the land of Canaan, As the portion of your inheritance." 







###### 19 



When they were only a few in number, Very few, and strangers in it, 







###### 20 



And they wandered from nation to nation, And from _one_ kingdom to another people, 







###### 21 



He allowed no one to oppress them, And He rebuked kings for their sakes, _saying_, 







###### 22 



"Do not touch My anointed ones, And do not harm My prophets." 







###### 23 



Sing to the LORD, all the earth; Proclaim good news of His salvation from day to day. 







###### 24 



Tell of His glory among the nations, His wonderful deeds among all the peoples. 







###### 25 



For great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised; He also is to be feared above all gods. 







###### 26 



For all the gods of the peoples are [^f]idols, But the LORD made the heavens. 







###### 27 



Splendor and majesty are before Him, Strength and joy are in His place. 







###### 28 



Ascribe to the LORD, you families of the peoples, Ascribe to the LORD glory and strength. 







###### 29 



Ascribe to the LORD the glory due His name; Bring an [^g]offering, and come before Him; Worship the LORD in [^h]holy attire. 







###### 30 



Tremble before Him, all the earth; Indeed, the world is firmly established, it will not be moved. 







###### 31 



[^i]Let the heavens be joyful, and the earth rejoice; And let them say among the nations, "The LORD reigns." 







###### 32 



Let the sea [^j]roar, and [^k]everything it contains; Let the field rejoice, and everything that is in it. 







###### 33 



Then the trees of the forest will sing for joy in the presence of the LORD; For He is coming to judge the earth. 







###### 34 



Give thanks to the LORD, for _He is_ good; For His faithfulness is everlasting. 







###### 35 



Then say, "Save us, God of our salvation, And gather us and save us from the nations, To give thanks to Your holy name, And [^l]glory in Your praise." 







###### 36 



Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, From everlasting to everlasting! Then all the people said, "Amen," and praised the LORD. ## Worship before the Ark 







###### 37 



So he left Asaph and his relatives there before the ark of the covenant of the LORD, to minister before the ark continually, as every day's work required, 







###### 38 



and Obed-edom with [^m]his sixty-eight relatives; Obed-edom, the son of Jeduthun, and Hosah as gatekeepers. 







###### 39 



_He left_ Zadok the priest and his relatives the priests before the [^n]tabernacle of the LORD in the high place which _was_ at Gibeon, 







###### 40 



to offer burnt offerings to the LORD on the altar of burnt offering continually morning and evening, even according to everything that is written in the Law of the LORD, which He commanded Israel. 







###### 41 



With them _were_ Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest who were chosen, who were designated by name, to give thanks to the LORD, because His [^o]kindness is everlasting. 







###### 42 



And with them _were_ Heman and Jeduthun _with_ trumpets and cymbals for those who _were to_ play _them_, and _with_ instruments _for_ the songs of God, and the sons of Jeduthun for the gate. 







###### 43 



Then all the people departed, each to his house; and David returned to bless his household. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 16:5 In 1 Chr 15:18, _Jaaziel_ [^b]: 1 Chronicles 16:7 Lit _by the hand of Asaph_ [^c]: 1 Chronicles 16:9 Or _Meditate on_ [^d]: 1 Chronicles 16:9 I.e., wonderful acts [^e]: 1 Chronicles 16:13 Lit _seed of_ [^f]: 1 Chronicles 16:26 Or _non-existent things_ [^g]: 1 Chronicles 16:29 Or _a grain offering_ [^h]: 1 Chronicles 16:29 Or _the splendor of holiness_ [^i]: 1 Chronicles 16:31 Hopeful command or wish, not a request; and so through v 32 [^j]: 1 Chronicles 16:32 Or _thunder_ [^k]: 1 Chronicles 16:32 Lit _its fullness_ [^l]: 1 Chronicles 16:35 Lit _boast_ [^m]: 1 Chronicles 16:38 Lit _their brothers, sixty-eight_ [^n]: 1 Chronicles 16:39 Lit _dwelling place_ [^o]: 1 Chronicles 16:41 Or _faithfulness_
