---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 20]
previous: ['1 Chr 19']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 21']
---
# 1 Chronicles 20

***








###### 1 



Then it happened [^a]in the spring, at the time when kings go out _to battle_, that Joab led out the army and ravaged the land of the sons of Ammon, and came and besieged Rabbah. But David stayed in Jerusalem. And Joab struck Rabbah and overthrew it. 







###### 2 



David took the crown of [^b]their king from his head, and he found it to weigh a [^c]talent of gold, and there was a precious stone in it; and it was placed on David's head. And he brought out the spoils of the city, a very great amount. 







###### 3 



He brought out the people who _were_ in it, and [^d]put _them to work_ at saws, iron picks, and axes. And David did the same to all the cities of the sons of Ammon. Then David and all the people returned _to_ Jerusalem. 







###### 4 



Now it came about after this, that war [^e]broke out at [^f]Gezer with the Philistines; then Sibbecai the Hushathite [^g]killed Sippai, one of the descendants of the [^h]giants, and they were subdued. 







###### 5 



And there was war with the Philistines again, and Elhanan the son of Jair [^i]killed Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, the shaft of whose spear _was_ like a weaver's beam. 







###### 6 



Again there was war at Gath, where there was a man of _great_ stature who had twenty-four fingers and toes, six _fingers on each hand_ and six _toes on each foot_; and he also was descended from the giants. 







###### 7 



When he taunted Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimea, David's brother, [^j]killed him. 







###### 8 



These were descended from the giants in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 20:1 Lit _at the return of the year_ [^b]: 1 Chronicles 20:2 Another reading is _Malcam from_, a variant of the Ammonite god Milcom [^c]: 1 Chronicles 20:2 About 75 lb. or 34 kg [^d]: 1 Chronicles 20:3 So 2 Sam 12:31; MT _sawed_ them _apart with_ [^e]: 1 Chronicles 20:4 Lit _stood up_ [^f]: 1 Chronicles 20:4 In 2 Sam 21:18, _Gob_ [^g]: 1 Chronicles 20:4 Lit _struck_ [^h]: 1 Chronicles 20:4 Heb _Raphah_, and so in vv 6, 8 [^i]: 1 Chronicles 20:5 Lit _struck_ [^j]: 1 Chronicles 20:7 Lit _struck_
