---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 18]
previous: ['1 Chr 17']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 19']
---
# 1 Chronicles 18

***








###### 1 



Now after this it came about that David [^a]defeated the Philistines and subdued them and took Gath and its towns from the hand of the Philistines. 







###### 2 



And he defeated Moab, and the Moabites became servants to David, bringing tribute. 







###### 3 



David also defeated Hadadezer king of Zobah _as far as_ Hamath, as he went to establish his [^b]rule to the river Euphrates. 







###### 4 



David took from him a thousand chariots and seven thousand horsemen and twenty thousand foot soldiers, and David hamstrung _almost_ all the chariot horses, but left _enough_ of them for a hundred chariots. 







###### 5 



When the Arameans of [^c]Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David [^d]killed twenty-two thousand men of the Arameans. 







###### 6 



Then David put _garrisons_ among the Arameans of [^e]Damascus; and the Arameans became servants to David, bringing tribute. And the LORD helped David wherever he went. 







###### 7 



And David took the shields of gold which were [^f]carried by the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem. 







###### 8 



Also from [^g]Tibhath and Cun, cities of Hadadezer, David took a very large amount of bronze, with which Solomon made the bronze [^h]Sea and the pillars and the bronze utensils. 







###### 9 



Now when [^i]Tou king of Hamath heard that David had [^j]defeated all the army of Hadadezer king of Zobah, 







###### 10 



he sent [^k]Hadoram his son to King David to [^l]greet him and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and had [^m]defeated him; for Hadadezer had been at war with Tou. And _Hadoram brought_ all kinds of articles of gold and silver and bronze. 







###### 11 



King David also dedicated these to the LORD, with the silver and the gold which he had carried away from all the nations: from Edom, Moab, the sons of Ammon, the Philistines, and from Amalek. 







###### 12 



Moreover, Abishai the son of Zeruiah [^n]defeated eighteen thousand Edomites in the Valley of Salt. 







###### 13 



Then he put garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites became servants to David. And the LORD helped David wherever he went. 







###### 14 



So David reigned over all Israel; and he [^o]administered justice and righteousness for all his people. 







###### 15 



Joab the son of Zeruiah _was_ over the army, and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud _was_ secretary; 







###### 16 



and Zadok the son of Ahitub and Abimelech the son of Abiathar _were_ priests, and Shavsha _was_ secretary; 







###### 17 



and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada _was_ over the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and the sons of David _were_ chiefs at the king's side. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 18:1 Lit _struck_, and so in vv 1-3 [^b]: 1 Chronicles 18:3 Lit _hand_ [^c]: 1 Chronicles 18:5 Heb _Darmeseq_ [^d]: 1 Chronicles 18:5 Lit _struck_ [^e]: 1 Chronicles 18:6 Heb _Darmeseq_ [^f]: 1 Chronicles 18:7 Lit _on_ [^g]: 1 Chronicles 18:8 In 2 Sam 8:8, _Betah_ [^h]: 1 Chronicles 18:8 I.e., large basin [^i]: 1 Chronicles 18:9 In 2 Sam 8:9, _Toi_ [^j]: 1 Chronicles 18:9 Lit _struck_ [^k]: 1 Chronicles 18:10 In 2 Sam 8:10, _Joram_ [^l]: 1 Chronicles 18:10 Lit _ask him of his welfare_ [^m]: 1 Chronicles 18:10 Lit _struck_ [^n]: 1 Chronicles 18:12 Lit _struck_ [^o]: 1 Chronicles 18:14 Lit _was doing_
