---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 15]
previous: ['1 Chr 14']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 16']
---
# 1 Chronicles 15

***








###### 1 



Now _David_ built houses for himself in the city of David; and he prepared a place for the ark of God and pitched a tent for it. 







###### 2 



Then David said, "No one is to carry the ark of God except the Levites; for the LORD chose them to carry the ark of the LORD and to serve Him forever." 







###### 3 



And David assembled all Israel at Jerusalem to bring up the ark of the LORD to its place which he had prepared for it. 







###### 4 



David gathered together the sons of Aaron and the Levites: 







###### 5 



of the sons of Kohath, Uriel the chief, and 120 of his relatives; 







###### 6 



of the sons of Merari, Asaiah the chief, and 220 of his relatives; 







###### 7 



of the sons of Gershom, Joel the chief, and 130 of his relatives; 







###### 8 



of the sons of Elizaphan, Shemaiah the chief, and two hundred of his relatives; 







###### 9 



of the sons of Hebron, Eliel the chief, and eighty of his relatives; 







###### 10 



of the sons of Uzziel, Amminadab the chief, and 112 of his relatives. 







###### 11 



Then David called for the priests Zadok and Abiathar, and for the Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel, and Amminadab; 







###### 12 



and he said to them, "You are the heads of the fathers' _households_ of the Levites; consecrate yourselves, you and your relatives, so that you may bring up the ark of the LORD God of Israel to _the place_ that I have prepared for it. 







###### 13 



Because you did not _carry it_ at the first, the LORD our God made an outburst against us, since we did not seek Him according to the ordinance." 







###### 14 



So the priests and the Levites consecrated themselves to bring up the ark of the LORD God of Israel. 







###### 15 



The sons of the Levites carried the ark of God on their shoulders with the poles on them, just as Moses had commanded in accordance with the word of the LORD. 







###### 16 



Then David spoke to the chiefs of the Levites to appoint their relatives _as_ the singers, with musical instruments, harps, lyres, and cymbals, playing to raise sounds of joy. 







###### 17 



So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel, and from his relatives, Asaph the son of Berechiah; and from the sons of Merari their relatives, Ethan the son of Kushaiah, 







###### 18 



and with them their relatives of the second rank, Zechariah, [^a]Ben, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-edom, and Jeiel, the gatekeepers. 







###### 19 



So the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, _were appointed_ to sound aloud cymbals of bronze; 







###### 20 



and Zechariah, Aziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah, and Benaiah, with harps _tuned_ to [^b]alamoth; 







###### 21 



and Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-edom, Jeiel, and Azaziah, to lead with [^c]lyres _tuned_ to the sheminith. 







###### 22 



Chenaniah, chief of the Levites, was _in charge of_ the singing; he gave instruction in singing because he was skillful. 







###### 23 



Berechiah and Elkanah were gatekeepers for the ark. 







###### 24 



Shebaniah, Joshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, blew the trumpets before the ark of God. Obed-edom and Jehiah also _were_ gatekeepers for the ark. 







###### 25 



So _it was_ David, with the elders of Israel and the captains of thousands, who went to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD from the house of Obed-edom with joy. 







###### 26 



Because God was helping the Levites who were carrying the ark of the covenant of the LORD, they sacrificed seven bulls and seven rams. 







###### 27 



Now David was clothed with a robe of fine linen with all the Levites who were carrying the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah the leader of the singing _with_ the singers. David also wore an ephod of linen. 







###### 28 



So all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the LORD with shouting, and with _the_ sound of the horn, with trumpets, with loud-sounding cymbals, with harps, and lyres. 







###### 29 



When the ark of the covenant of the LORD came to the city of David, Michal the daughter of Saul looked out of the window and saw King David dancing and celebrating; and she despised him in her heart. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 15:18 Omitted in LXX and many mss [^b]: 1 Chronicles 15:20 Or perhaps the pitch _of young girls_ [^c]: 1 Chronicles 15:21 Or _octave_
