---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 11]
previous: ['1 Cor 10']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 12']
---
# 1 Corinthians 11

***
# 1 Corinthians 11 (New Living Translation) ## Instructions for Public Worship 



###### 2 

I am so glad that you always keep me in your thoughts, and that you are following the teachings I passed on to you. 



###### 3 

But there is one thing I want you to know: The head of every man is Christ, the head of woman is man, and the head of Christ is God.[^a] 



###### 4 

A man dishonors his head[^b] if he covers his head while praying or prophesying. 



###### 5 

But a woman dishonors her head[^c] if she prays or prophesies without a covering on her head, for this is the same as shaving her head. 



###### 6 

Yes, if she refuses to wear a head covering, she should cut off all her hair! But since it is shameful for a woman to have her hair cut or her head shaved, she should wear a covering.[^d] 



###### 7 

A man should not wear anything on his head when worshiping, for man is made in God's image and reflects God's glory. And woman reflects man's glory. 



###### 8 

For the first man didn't come from woman, but the first woman came from man. 



###### 9 

And man was not made for woman, but woman was made for man. 



###### 10 

For this reason, and because the angels are watching, a woman should wear a covering on her head to show she is under authority.[^e] 



###### 11 

But among the Lord's people, women are not independent of men, and men are not independent of women. 



###### 12 

For although the first woman came from man, every other man was born from a woman, and everything comes from God. 



###### 13 

Judge for yourselves. Is it right for a woman to pray to God in public without covering her head? 



###### 14 

Isn't it obvious that it's disgraceful for a man to have long hair? 



###### 15 

And isn't long hair a woman's pride and joy? For it has been given to her as a covering. 



###### 16 

But if anyone wants to argue about this, I simply say that we have no other custom than this, and neither do God's other churches. ## Order at the Lord's Supper 



###### 17 

But in the following instructions, I cannot praise you. For it sounds as if more harm than good is done when you meet together. 



###### 18 

First, I hear that there are divisions among you when you meet as a church, and to some extent I believe it. 



###### 19 

But, of course, there must be divisions among you so that you who have God's approval will be recognized! 



###### 20 

When you meet together, you are not really interested in the Lord's Supper. 



###### 21 

For some of you hurry to eat your own meal without sharing with others. As a result, some go hungry while others get drunk. 



###### 22 

What? Don't you have your own homes for eating and drinking? Or do you really want to disgrace God's church and shame the poor? What am I supposed to say? Do you want me to praise you? Well, I certainly will not praise you for this! 



###### 23 

For I pass on to you what I received from the Lord himself. On the night when he was betrayed, the Lord Jesus took some bread 



###### 24 

and gave thanks to God for it. Then he broke it in pieces and said, "This is my body, which is given for you.[^f] Do this in remembrance of me." 



###### 25 

In the same way, he took the cup of wine after supper, saying, "This cup is the new covenant between God and his people--an agreement confirmed with my blood. Do this in remembrance of me as often as you drink it." 



###### 26 

For every time you eat this bread and drink this cup, you are announcing the Lord's death until he comes again. 



###### 27 

So anyone who eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord unworthily is guilty of sinning against[^g] the body and blood of the Lord. 



###### 28 

That is why you should examine yourself before eating the bread and drinking the cup. 



###### 29 

For if you eat the bread or drink the cup without honoring the body of Christ,[^h] you are eating and drinking God's judgment upon yourself. 



###### 30 

That is why many of you are weak and sick and some have even died. 



###### 31 

But if we would examine ourselves, we would not be judged by God in this way. 



###### 32 

Yet when we are judged by the Lord, we are being disciplined so that we will not be condemned along with the world. 



###### 33 

So, my dear brothers and sisters,[^i] when you gather for the Lord's Supper, wait for each other. 



###### 34 

If you are really hungry, eat at home so you won't bring judgment upon yourselves when you meet together. I'll give you instructions about the other matters after I arrive. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 11:3 Or _to know: The source of every man is Christ, the source of woman is man, and the source of Christ is God._ Or _to know: Every man is responsible to Christ, a woman is responsible to her husband, and Christ is responsible to God._ [^b]: 11:4 Or _dishonors Christ._ [^c]: 11:5 Or _dishonors her husband._ [^d]: 11:6 Or _should have long hair._ [^e]: 11:10 Greek _should have an authority on her head._ [^f]: 11:24 Greek _which is for you;_ other manuscripts read _which is broken for you._ [^g]: 11:27 Or _is responsible for._ [^h]: 11:29 Greek _the body;_ other manuscripts read _the Lord’s body._ [^i]: 11:33 Greek _brothers._
