---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 13]
previous: ['1 Cor 12']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 14']
---
# 1 Corinthians 13

***




###### 1 

If I could speak all the languages of earth and of angels, but didn't love others, I would only be a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. 



###### 2 

If I had the gift of prophecy, and if I understood all of God's secret plans and possessed all knowledge, and if I had such faith that I could move mountains, but didn't love others, I would be nothing. 



###### 3 

If I gave everything I have to the poor and even sacrificed my body, I could boast about it;[^a] but if I didn't love others, I would have gained nothing. 



###### 4 

Love is patient and kind. Love is not jealous or boastful or proud 



###### 5 

or rude. It does not demand its own way. It is not irritable, and it keeps no record of being wronged. 



###### 6 

It does not rejoice about injustice but rejoices whenever the truth wins out. 



###### 7 

Love never gives up, never loses faith, is always hopeful, and endures through every circumstance. 



###### 8 

Prophecy and speaking in unknown languages[^b] and special knowledge will become useless. But love will last forever! 



###### 9 

Now our knowledge is partial and incomplete, and even the gift of prophecy reveals only part of the whole picture! 



###### 10 

But when the time of perfection comes, these partial things will become useless. 



###### 11 

When I was a child, I spoke and thought and reasoned as a child. But when I grew up, I put away childish things. 



###### 12 

Now we see things imperfectly, like puzzling reflections in a mirror, but then we will see everything with perfect clarity.[^c] All that I know now is partial and incomplete, but then I will know everything completely, just as God now knows me completely. 



###### 13 

Three things will last forever--faith, hope, and love--and the greatest of these is love. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 13:3 Some manuscripts read _sacrificed my body to be burned._ [^b]: 13:8 Or _in tongues._ [^c]: 13:12 Greek _see face to face._
