---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 11]
previous: ['1 Cor 10']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 12']
---
# 1 Corinthians 11

***


###### 1 
Imitate me, just as I also _imitate_ Christ.

## Head Coverings 

###### 2 
Now I praise you, brethren, that you remember me in all things and keep the traditions just as I delivered _them_ to you. 

###### 3 
But I want you to know that the head of every man is Christ, the head of woman _is_ man, and the head of Christ _is_ God. 

###### 4 
Every man praying or prophesying, having _his_ head covered, dishonors his head. 

###### 5 
But every woman who prays or prophesies with _her_ head uncovered dishonors her head, for that is one and the same as if her head were shaved. 

###### 6 
For if a woman is not covered, let her also be shorn. But if it is shameful for a woman to be shorn or shaved, let her be covered. 

###### 7 
For a man indeed ought not to cover _his_ head, since he is the image and glory of God; but woman is the glory of man. 

###### 8 
For man is not from woman, but woman from man. 

###### 9 
Nor was man created for the woman, but woman for the man. 

###### 10 
For this reason the woman ought to have _a symbol of_ authority on _her_ head, because of the angels. 

###### 11 
Nevertheless, neither _is_ man independent of woman, nor woman independent of man, in the Lord. 

###### 12 
For as woman _came_ from man, even so man also _comes_ through woman; but all things are from God. 

###### 13 
Judge among yourselves. Is it proper for a woman to pray to God with her head uncovered? 

###### 14 
Does not even nature itself teach you that if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him? 

###### 15 
But if a woman has long hair, it is a glory to her; for _her_ hair is given to her for a covering. 

###### 16 
But if anyone seems to be contentious, we have no such custom, nor _do_ the churches of God.

## Conduct at the Lord's Supper 

###### 17 
Now in giving these instructions I do not praise _you,_ since you come together not for the better but for the worse. 

###### 18 
For first of all, when you come together as a church, I hear that there are divisions among you, and in part I believe it. 

###### 19 
For there must also be factions among you, that those who are approved may be recognized among you. 

###### 20 
Therefore when you come together in one place, it is not to eat the Lord's Supper. 

###### 21 
For in eating, each one takes his own supper ahead of _others;_ and one is hungry and another is drunk. 

###### 22 
What! Do you not have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God and shame those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I do not praise _you._

## Institution of the Lord's Supper 

###### 23 
For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you: that the Lord Jesus on the _same_ night in which He was betrayed took bread; 

###### 24 
and when He had given thanks, He broke _it_ and said, "Take, eat; this is My body which is broken for you; do this in remembrance of Me." 

###### 25 
In the same manner _He_ also _took_ the cup after supper, saying, "This cup is the new covenant in My blood. This do, as often as you drink _it,_ in remembrance of Me." 

###### 26 
For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death till He comes.

## Examine Yourself 

###### 27 
Therefore whoever eats this bread or drinks _this_ cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. 

###### 28 
But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup. 

###### 29 
For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. 

###### 30 
For this reason many _are_ weak and sick among you, and many sleep. 

###### 31 
For if we would judge ourselves, we would not be judged. 

###### 32 
But when we are judged, we are chastened by the Lord, that we may not be condemned with the world. 

###### 33 
Therefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat, wait for one another. 

###### 34 
But if anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, lest you come together for judgment. And the rest I will set in order when I come.
