---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 12]
previous: ['1 Cor 11']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 13']
---
# 1 Corinthians 12

***


###### 1 
Now concerning spiritual _gifts,_ brethren, I do not want you to be ignorant: 

###### 2 
You know that you were Gentiles, carried away to these dumb idols, however you were led. 

###### 3 
Therefore I make known to you that no one speaking by the Spirit of God calls Jesus accursed, and no one can say that Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. 

###### 4 
There are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit. 

###### 5 
There are differences of ministries, but the same Lord. 

###### 6 
And there are diversities of activities, but it is the same God who works all in all. 

###### 7 
But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to each one for the profit _of all:_ 

###### 8 
for to one is given the word of wisdom through the Spirit, to another the word of knowledge through the same Spirit, 

###### 9 
to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healings by the same Spirit, 

###### 10 
to another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to another discerning of spirits, to another _different_ kinds of tongues, to another the interpretation of tongues. 

###### 11 
But one and the same Spirit works all these things, distributing to each one individually as He wills.

## Unity and Diversity in One Body 

###### 12 
For as the body is one and has many members, but all the members of that one body, being many, are one body, so also _is_ Christ. 

###### 13 
For by one Spirit we were all baptized into one body--whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free--and have all been made to drink into one Spirit. 

###### 14 
For in fact the body is not one member but many. 

###### 15 
If the foot should say, "Because I am not a hand, I am not of the body," is it therefore not of the body? 

###### 16 
And if the ear should say, "Because I am not an eye, I am not of the body," is it therefore not of the body? 

###### 17 
If the whole body _were_ an eye, where _would be_ the hearing? If the whole _were_ hearing, where _would be_ the smelling? 

###### 18 
But now God has set the members, each one of them, in the body just as He pleased. 

###### 19 
And if they were all one member, where _would_ the body _be?_ 

###### 20 
But now indeed _there are_ many members, yet one body. 

###### 21 
And the eye cannot say to the hand, "I have no need of you"; nor again the head to the feet, "I have no need of you." 

###### 22 
No, much rather, those members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary. 

###### 23 
And those _members_ of the body which we think to be less honorable, on these we bestow greater honor; and our unpresentable _parts_ have greater modesty, 

###### 24 
but our presentable _parts_ have no need. But God composed the body, having given greater honor to that _part_ which lacks it, 

###### 25 
that there should be no schism in the body, but _that_ the members should have the same care for one another. 

###### 26 
And if one member suffers, all the members suffer with _it;_ or if one member is honored, all the members rejoice with _it._ 

###### 27 
Now you are the body of Christ, and members individually. 

###### 28 
And God has appointed these in the church: first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, administrations, varieties of tongues. 

###### 29 
_Are_ all apostles? _Are_ all prophets? _Are_ all teachers? _Are_ all workers of miracles? 

###### 30 
Do all have gifts of healings? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret? 

###### 31 
But earnestly desire the best gifts. And yet I show you a more excellent way.
