---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 13]
previous: ['1 Cor 12']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 14']
---
# 1 Corinthians 13

***


###### 1 
Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I have become sounding brass or a clanging cymbal. 

###### 2 
And though I have _the gift of_ prophecy, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing. 

###### 3 
And though I bestow all my goods to feed _the poor,_ and though I give my body [^a]to be burned, but have not love, it profits me nothing. 

###### 4 
Love suffers long _and_ is kind; love does not envy; love does not parade itself, is not [^b]puffed up; 

###### 5 
does not behave rudely, does not seek its own, is not provoked, [^c]thinks no evil; 

###### 6 
does not rejoice in iniquity, but rejoices in the truth; 

###### 7 
bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. 

###### 8 
Love never fails. But whether _there are_ prophecies, they will fail; whether _there are_ tongues, they will cease; whether _there is_ knowledge, it will vanish away. 

###### 9 
For we know in part and we prophesy in part. 

###### 10 
But when that which is [^d]perfect has come, then that which is in part will be done away. 

###### 11 
When I was a child, I spoke as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child; but when I became a man, I put away childish things. 

###### 12 
For now we see in a mirror, dimly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then I shall know just as I also am known. 

###### 13 
And now abide faith, hope, love, these three; but the greatest of these _is_ love.
