---
Aliases: [Psalms 104]
previous: ['Ps 103']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 105']
---
# Psalms 104

***










###### 1 




My soul, bless the Lord! Lord my God, you are very great; you are clothed with majesty and splendor. 









###### 2 




He wraps himself in light as if it were a robe, spreading out the sky like a canopy, 









###### 3 




laying the beams of his palace on the waters above, making the clouds his chariot, walking on the wings of the wind, 









###### 4 




and making the winds his messengers,[^a] flames of fire his servants. 









###### 5 




He established the earth on its foundations; it will never be shaken. 









###### 6 




You covered it with the deep as if it were a garment; the water stood above the mountains. 









###### 7 




At your rebuke the water fled; at the sound of your thunder they hurried away-- 









###### 8 




mountains rose and valleys sank[^b]-- to the place you established for them. 









###### 9 




You set a boundary they cannot cross; they will never cover the earth again. 









###### 10 




He causes the springs to gush into the valleys; they flow between the mountains. 









###### 11 




They supply water for every wild beast; the wild donkeys quench their thirst. 









###### 12 




The birds of the sky live beside the springs; they make their voices heard among the foliage. 









###### 13 




He waters the mountains from his palace; the earth is satisfied by the fruit of your labor. 









###### 14 




He causes grass to grow for the livestock and provides crops for man to cultivate, producing food from the earth, 









###### 15 




wine that makes human hearts glad-- making his face shine with oil-- and bread that sustains human hearts. 









###### 16 




The trees of the Lord flourish,[^c] the cedars of Lebanon that he planted. 









###### 17 




There the birds make their nests; storks make their homes in the pine trees. 









###### 18 




The high mountains are for the wild goats; the cliffs are a refuge for hyraxes. 









###### 19 




He made the moon to mark the[^d] festivals;[^e] the sun knows when to set. 









###### 20 




You bring darkness, and it becomes night, when all the forest animals stir. 









###### 21 




The young lions roar for their prey and seek their food from God. 









###### 22 




The sun rises; they go back and lie down in their dens. 









###### 23 




Man goes out to his work and to his labor until evening. 









###### 24 




How countless are your works, Lord! In wisdom you have made them all; the earth is full of your creatures.[^f] 









###### 25 




Here is the sea, vast and wide, teeming with creatures beyond number-- living things both large and small. 









###### 26 




There the ships move about, and Leviathan, which you formed to play there. 









###### 27 




All of them wait for you to give them their food at the right time. 









###### 28 




When you give it to them, they gather it; when you open your hand, they are satisfied with good things. 









###### 29 




When you hide your face, they are terrified; when you take away their breath, they die and return to the dust. 









###### 30 




When you send your breath,[^g] they are created, and you renew the surface of the ground. 









###### 31 




May the glory of the Lord endure forever; may the Lord rejoice in his works. 









###### 32 




He looks at the earth, and it trembles; he touches the mountains, and they pour out smoke. 









###### 33 




I will sing to the Lord all my life; I will sing praise to my God while I live. 









###### 34 




May my meditation be pleasing to him; I will rejoice in the Lord. 









###### 35 




May sinners vanish from the earth and wicked people be no more. My soul, bless the Lord! Hallelujah! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 104:4 Or <em>angels</em> [^b]: 104:7–8 Or <em>away. They flowed over the mountains and went down valleys</em> [^c]: 104:16 Lit <em>are satisfied</em> [^d]: 104:19 Lit <em>moon for</em> [^e]: 104:19 Or <em>the appointed times</em> [^f]: 104:24 Lit <em>possessions</em> [^g]: 104:30 Or <em>Spirit</em>
