---
Aliases: [Psalms 12]
previous: ['Ps 11']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 13']
---
# Psalms 12

***










###### 1 




Help, Lord, for no faithful one remains; the loyal have disappeared from the human race.[^a] 









###### 2 




They lie to one another; they speak with flattering lips and deceptive hearts. 









###### 3 




May the Lord cut off all flattering lips and the tongue that speaks boastfully. 









###### 4 




They say, "Through our tongues we have power; our lips are our own--who can be our master?" 









###### 5 




"Because of the devastation of the needy and the groaning of the poor, I will now rise up," says the Lord. "I will provide safety for the one who longs for it." 









###### 6 




The words of the Lord are pure words, like silver refined in an earthen furnace, purified seven times. 









###### 7 




You, Lord, will guard us;[^b] you will protect us[^c] from this generation forever. 









###### 8 




The wicked prowl[^d] all around, and what is worthless is exalted by the human race. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 12:1 Or <em>the descendants of Adam</em>, also in v. 8 [^b]: 12:7 Some Hb mss, LXX, Jer; other Hb mss read <em>them</em> [^c]: 12:7 Some Hb mss, LXX; other Hb mss read <em>him</em> [^d]: 12:8 Lit <em>walk about</em>
