---
Aliases: [Psalms 118]
previous: ['Ps 117']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 119']
---
# Psalms 118

***










###### 1 




Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good; his faithful love endures forever. 









###### 2 




Let Israel say, "His faithful love endures forever." 









###### 3 




Let the house of Aaron say, "His faithful love endures forever." 









###### 4 




Let those who fear the Lord say, "His faithful love endures forever." 









###### 5 




I called to the Lord in distress; the Lord answered me and put me in a spacious place.[^a] 









###### 6 




The Lord is for me; I will not be afraid. What can a mere mortal do to me? 









###### 7 




The Lord is my helper; therefore, I will look in triumph on those who hate me. 









###### 8 




It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in humanity. 









###### 9 




It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in nobles. 









###### 10 




All the nations surrounded me; in the name of the Lord I destroyed them. 









###### 11 




They surrounded me, yes, they surrounded me; in the name of the Lord I destroyed them. 









###### 12 




They surrounded me like bees; they were extinguished like a fire among thorns; in the name of the Lord I destroyed them. 









###### 13 




They[^b] pushed me hard to make me fall, but the Lord helped me. 









###### 14 




The Lord is my strength and my song; he has become my salvation. 









###### 15 




There are shouts of joy and victory in the tents of the righteous: "The Lord's right hand performs valiantly! 









###### 16 




The Lord's right hand is raised. The Lord's right hand performs valiantly!" 









###### 17 




I will not die, but I will live and proclaim what the Lord has done. 









###### 18 




The Lord disciplined me severely but did not give me over to death. 









###### 19 




Open the gates of righteousness for me; I will enter through them and give thanks to the Lord. 









###### 20 




This is the Lord's gate; the righteous will enter through it. 









###### 21 




I will give thanks to you because you have answered me and have become my salvation. 









###### 22 




The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. 









###### 23 




This came from the Lord; it is wondrous in our sight. 









###### 24 




This is the day the Lord has made; let's rejoice and be glad in it. 









###### 25 




Lord, save us! Lord, please grant us success! 









###### 26 




He who comes in the name of the Lord is blessed. From the house of the Lord we bless you. 









###### 27 




The Lord is God and has given us light. Bind the festival sacrifice with cords to the horns of the altar. 









###### 28 




You are my God, and I will give you thanks. You are my God; I will exalt you. 









###### 29 




Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good; his faithful love endures forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 118:5 Or <em>answered me with freedom</em> [^b]: 118:13 Lit <em>You</em>
