---
Aliases: [Psalms 101]
previous: ['Ps 100']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 102']
---
# Psalms 101

***










###### 1 




I will sing of faithful love and justice; I will sing praise to you, Lord. 









###### 2 




I will pay attention to the way of integrity. When will you come to me? I will live with a heart of integrity in my house. 









###### 3 




I will not let anything worthless guide me.[^a] I hate the practice of transgression; it will not cling to me. 









###### 4 




A devious heart will be far from me; I will not be involved with[^b] evil. 









###### 5 




I will destroy anyone who secretly slanders his neighbor; I cannot tolerate anyone with haughty eyes or an arrogant heart. 









###### 6 




My eyes favor the faithful of the land so that they may sit down with me. The one who follows the way of integrity may serve me. 









###### 7 




No one who acts deceitfully will live in my palace; the one who tells lies will not be retained here to guide me.[^c] 









###### 8 




Every morning I will destroy all the wicked of the land, wiping out all evildoers from the Lord's city. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 101:3 Lit <em>I will not put a worthless thing in front of my eyes</em> [^b]: 101:4 Lit <em>not know</em> [^c]: 101:7 Lit <em>be established in front of my eyes</em>
