---
Aliases: [Psalms 16]
previous: ['Ps 15']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 17']
---
# Psalms 16

***










###### 1 




Protect me, God, for I take refuge in you. 









###### 2 




I[^a] said to the Lord, "You are my Lord; I have nothing good besides you."[^b] 









###### 3 




As for the holy people who are in the land, they are the noble ones. All my delight is in them. 









###### 4 




The sorrows of those who take another god for themselves will multiply; I will not pour out their drink offerings of blood, and I will not speak their names with my lips. 









###### 5 




Lord, you are my portion[^c] and my cup of blessing; you hold my future. 









###### 6 




The boundary lines have fallen for me in pleasant places; indeed, I have a beautiful inheritance. 









###### 7 




I will bless the Lord who counsels me-- even at night when my thoughts trouble me.[^d] 









###### 8 




I always let the Lord guide me.[^e] Because he is at my right hand, I will not be shaken. 









###### 9 




Therefore my heart is glad and my whole being rejoices; my body also rests securely. 









###### 10 




For you will not abandon me to Sheol; you will not allow your faithful one to see decay. 









###### 11 




You reveal the path of life to me; in your presence is abundant joy; at your right hand are eternal pleasures. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 16:2 Some Hb mss, LXX, Syr, Jer; other Hb mss read <em>You</em> [^b]: 16:2 Or <em>“Lord, my good; there is none besides you.”</em> [^c]: 16:5 Or <em>allotted portion</em> [^d]: 16:7 Or <em>at night my heart instructs me</em> [^e]: 16:8 Lit I place the Lord in front of me always
