---
Aliases: [Psalms 115]
previous: ['Ps 114']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 116']
---
# Psalms 115

***










###### 1 




Not to us, Lord, not to us, but to your name give glory because of your faithful love, because of your truth. 









###### 2 




Why should the nations say, "Where is their God?" 









###### 3 




Our God is in heaven and does whatever he pleases. 









###### 4 




Their idols are silver and gold, made by human hands. 









###### 5 




They have mouths but cannot speak, eyes, but cannot see. 









###### 6 




They have ears but cannot hear, noses, but cannot smell. 









###### 7 




They have hands but cannot feel, feet, but cannot walk. They cannot make a sound with their throats. 









###### 8 




Those who make them are[^a] just like them, as are all who trust in them. 









###### 9 




Israel,[^b] trust in the Lord! He is their help and shield. 









###### 10 




House of Aaron, trust in the Lord! He is their help and shield. 









###### 11 




You who fear the Lord, trust in the Lord! He is their help and shield. 









###### 12 




The Lord remembers us and will bless us. He will bless the house of Israel; he will bless the house of Aaron; 









###### 13 




he will bless those who fear the Lord-- small and great alike. 









###### 14 




May the Lord add to your numbers, both yours and your children's. 









###### 15 




May you be blessed by the Lord, the Maker of heaven and earth. 









###### 16 




The heavens are the Lord's,[^c] but the earth he has given to the human race. 









###### 17 




It is not the dead who praise the Lord, nor any of those descending into the silence of death. 









###### 18 




But we will bless the Lord, both now and forever. Hallelujah! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 115:8 Or <em>May those who make them become</em> [^b]: 115:9 Some Hb mss, LXX, Syr read <em>House of Israel</em> [^c]: 115:16 Lit the Lord’s heavens
