---
Aliases: [Psalms 148]
previous: ['Ps 147']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 149']
---
# Psalms 148

***










###### 1 




Hallelujah! Praise the Lord from the heavens; praise him in the heights. 









###### 2 




Praise him, all his angels; praise him, all his heavenly armies. 









###### 3 




Praise him, sun and moon; praise him, all you shining stars. 









###### 4 




Praise him, highest heavens, and you waters above the heavens. 









###### 5 




Let them praise the name of the Lord, for he commanded, and they were created. 









###### 6 




He set them in position forever and ever; he gave an order that will never pass away. 









###### 7 




Praise the Lord from the earth, all sea monsters and ocean depths, 









###### 8 




lightning[^a] and hail, snow and cloud, stormy wind that executes his command, 









###### 9 




mountains and all hills, fruit trees and all cedars, 









###### 10 




wild animals and all cattle, creatures that crawl and flying birds, 









###### 11 




kings of the earth and all peoples, princes and all judges of the earth, 









###### 12 




young men as well as young women, old and young together. 









###### 13 




Let them praise the name of the Lord, for his name alone is exalted. His majesty covers heaven and earth. 









###### 14 




He has raised up a horn for his people, resulting in praise to all his faithful ones, to the Israelites, the people close to him. Hallelujah! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 148:8 Or <em>fire</em>
