---
Aliases: [Psalms 135]
previous: ['Ps 134']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 136']
---
# Psalms 135

***










###### 1 




Hallelujah! Praise the name of the Lord. Give praise, you servants of the Lord 









###### 2 




who stand in the house of the Lord, in the courts of the house of our God. 









###### 3 




Praise the Lord, for the Lord is good; sing praise to his name, for it is delightful. 









###### 4 




For the Lord has chosen Jacob for himself, Israel as his treasured possession. 









###### 5 




For I know that the Lord is great; our Lord is greater than all gods. 









###### 6 




The Lord does whatever he pleases in heaven and on earth, in the seas and all the depths. 









###### 7 




He causes the clouds to rise from the ends of the earth. He makes lightning for the rain and brings the wind from his storehouses. 









###### 8 




He struck down the firstborn of Egypt, both people and animals. 









###### 9 




He sent signs and wonders against you, Egypt, against Pharaoh and all his officials. 









###### 10 




He struck down many nations and slaughtered mighty kings: 









###### 11 




Sihon king of the Amorites, Og king of Bashan, and all the kings of Canaan. 









###### 12 




He gave their land as an inheritance, an inheritance to his people Israel. 









###### 13 




Lord, your name endures forever, your reputation, Lord, through all generations. 









###### 14 




For the Lord will vindicate his people and have compassion on his servants. 









###### 15 




The idols of the nations are of silver and gold, made by human hands. 









###### 16 




They have mouths but cannot speak, eyes, but cannot see. 









###### 17 




They have ears but cannot hear; indeed, there is no breath in their mouths. 









###### 18 




Those who make them are just like them, as are all who trust in them. 









###### 19 




House of Israel, bless the Lord! House of Aaron, bless the Lord! 









###### 20 




House of Levi, bless the Lord! You who revere the Lord, bless the Lord! 









###### 21 




Blessed be the Lord from Zion; he dwells in Jerusalem. Hallelujah! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
