---
Aliases: [Psalms 103]
previous: ['Ps 102']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 104']
---
# Psalms 103

***










###### 1 




My soul, bless the Lord, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. 









###### 2 




My soul, bless the Lord, and do not forget all his benefits. 









###### 3 




He forgives all your iniquity; he heals all your diseases. 









###### 4 




He redeems your life from the Pit; he crowns you with faithful love and compassion. 









###### 5 




He satisfies you[^a] with good things; your youth is renewed like the eagle. 









###### 6 




The Lord executes acts of righteousness and justice for all the oppressed. 









###### 7 




He revealed his ways to Moses, his deeds to the people of Israel. 









###### 8 




The Lord is compassionate and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in faithful love. 









###### 9 




He will not always accuse us or be angry forever. 









###### 10 




He has not dealt with us as our sins deserve or repaid us according to our iniquities. 









###### 11 




For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his faithful love toward those who fear him. 









###### 12 




As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. 









###### 13 




As a father has compassion on his children, so the Lord has compassion on those who fear him. 









###### 14 




For he knows what we are made of, remembering that we are dust. 









###### 15 




As for man, his days are like grass-- he blooms like a flower of the field; 









###### 16 




when the wind passes over it, it vanishes, and its place is no longer known.[^b] 









###### 17 




But from eternity to eternity the Lord's faithful love is toward those who fear him, and his righteousness toward the grandchildren 









###### 18 




of those who keep his covenant, who remember to observe his precepts. 









###### 19 




The Lord has established his throne in heaven, and his kingdom rules over all. 









###### 20 




Bless the Lord, all his angels of great strength, who do his word, obedient to his command. 









###### 21 




Bless the Lord, all his armies, his servants who do his will. 









###### 22 




Bless the Lord, all his works in all the places where he rules. My soul, bless the Lord! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 103:5 Lit <em>satisfies your ornament</em>; Hb obscure [^b]: 103:16 Lit <em>place no longer knows it</em>
