---
Aliases: [Psalms 14]
previous: ['Ps 13']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 15']
---
# Psalms 14

***










###### 1 




The fool says in his heart, "There's no God." They are corrupt; they do vile deeds. There is no one who does good. 









###### 2 




The Lord looks down from heaven on the human race[^a] to see if there is one who is wise, one who seeks God. 









###### 3 




All have turned away; all alike have become corrupt. There is no one who does good, not even one. 









###### 4 




Will evildoers never understand? They consume my people as they consume bread; they do not call on the Lord. 









###### 5 




Then[^b] they will be filled with dread, for God is with those who are[^c] righteous. 









###### 6 




You sinners frustrate the plans of the oppressed, but the Lord is his refuge. 









###### 7 




Oh, that Israel's deliverance would come from Zion! When the Lord restores the fortunes of his people,[^d] let Jacob rejoice, let Israel be glad. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 14:2 Or <em>the descendants of Adam</em> [^b]: 14:5 Or <em>There</em> [^c]: 14:5 Lit <em>with the generation of the</em> [^d]: 14:7 Or <em>restores his captive people</em>
