---
Aliases: [Psalms 143]
previous: ['Ps 142']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 144']
---
# Psalms 143

***










###### 1 




Lord, hear my prayer. In your faithfulness listen to my plea, and in your righteousness answer me. 









###### 2 




Do not bring your servant into judgment, for no one alive is righteous in your sight. 









###### 3 




For the enemy has pursued me, crushing me to the ground, making me live in darkness like those long dead. 









###### 4 




My spirit is weak within me; my heart is overcome with dismay. 









###### 5 




I remember the days of old; I meditate on all you have done; I reflect on the work of your hands. 









###### 6 




I spread out my hands to you; I am like parched land before you.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 7 




Answer me quickly, Lord; my spirit fails. Don't hide your face from me, or I will be like those going down to the Pit. 









###### 8 




Let me experience your faithful love in the morning, for I trust in you. Reveal to me the way I should go because I appeal to you. 









###### 9 




Rescue me from my enemies, Lord; I come to you for protection.[^a] 









###### 10 




Teach me to do your will, for you are my God. May your gracious Spirit lead me on level ground. 









###### 11 




For your name's sake, Lord, let me live. In your righteousness deliver me from trouble, 









###### 12 




and in your faithful love destroy my enemies. Wipe out all those who attack me, for I am your servant. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 143:9 One Hb ms, LXX; some Hb mss read <em>I cover myself to you</em>
