---
Aliases: [Psalms 137]
previous: ['Ps 136']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 138']
---
# Psalms 137

***










###### 1 




By the rivers of Babylon-- there we sat down and wept when we remembered Zion. 









###### 2 




There we hung up our lyres on the poplar trees, 









###### 3 




for our captors there asked us for songs, and our tormentors, for rejoicing: "Sing us one of the songs of Zion." 









###### 4 




How can we sing the Lord's song on foreign soil? 









###### 5 




If I forget you, Jerusalem, may my right hand forget its skill. 









###### 6 




May my tongue stick to the roof of my mouth if I do not remember you, if I do not exalt Jerusalem as my greatest joy! 









###### 7 




Remember, Lord, what the Edomites said that day[^a] at Jerusalem: "Destroy it! Destroy it down to its foundations!" 









###### 8 




Daughter Babylon, doomed to destruction, happy is the one who pays you back what you have done to us. 









###### 9 




Happy is he who takes your little ones and dashes them against the rocks. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 137:7 The day Jerusalem fell to the Babylonians in 586 BC
