---
Aliases: [Psalms 102]
previous: ['Ps 101']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 103']
---
# Psalms 102

***










###### 1 




Lord, hear my prayer; let my cry for help come before you. 









###### 2 




Do not hide your face from me in my day of trouble. Listen closely to me; answer me quickly when I call. 









###### 3 




For my days vanish like smoke, and my bones burn like a furnace. 









###### 4 




My heart is suffering, withered like grass; I even forget to eat my food. 









###### 5 




Because of the sound of my groaning, my flesh sticks to my bones. 









###### 6 




I am like an eagle owl, like a little owl among the ruins. 









###### 7 




I stay awake; I am like a solitary bird on a roof. 









###### 8 




My enemies taunt me all day long; they ridicule and use my name as a curse. 









###### 9 




I eat ashes like bread and mingle my drinks with tears 









###### 10 




because of your indignation and wrath; for you have picked me up and thrown me aside. 









###### 11 




My days are like a lengthening shadow, and I wither away like grass. 









###### 12 




But you, Lord, are enthroned forever; your fame endures to all generations. 









###### 13 




You will rise up and have compassion on Zion, for it is time to show favor to her-- the appointed time has come. 









###### 14 




For your servants take delight in its stones and favor its dust. 









###### 15 




Then the nations will fear the name of the Lord, and all the kings of the earth your glory, 









###### 16 




for the Lord will rebuild Zion; he will appear in his glory. 









###### 17 




He will pay attention to the prayer of the destitute and will not despise their prayer. 









###### 18 




This will be written for a later generation, and a people who have not yet been created will praise the Lord: 









###### 19 




He looked down from his holy heights-- the Lord gazed out from heaven to earth-- 









###### 20 




to hear a prisoner's groaning, to set free those condemned to die,[^a] 









###### 21 




so that they might declare the name of the Lord in Zion and his praise in Jerusalem 









###### 22 




when peoples and kingdoms are assembled to serve the Lord. 









###### 23 




He has broken my[^b] strength in midcourse; he has shortened my days. 









###### 24 




I say, "My God, do not take me in the middle of my life![^c] Your years continue through all generations. 









###### 25 




Long ago you established the earth, and the heavens are the work of your hands. 









###### 26 




They will perish, but you will endure; all of them will wear out like clothing. You will change them like a garment, and they will pass away. 









###### 27 




But you are the same, and your years will never end. 









###### 28 




Your servants' children will dwell securely, and their offspring will be established before you." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 102:20 Lit <em>free sons of death</em> [^b]: 102:23 Some Hb mss, LXX read <em>his</em> [^c]: 102:24 Lit <em>my days</em>
