---
Aliases: [Psalms 108]
previous: ['Ps 107']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 109']
---
# Psalms 108

***










###### 1 




My heart is confident, God; I will sing; I will sing praises with the whole of my being.[^a] 









###### 2 




Wake up, harp and lyre! I will wake up the dawn. 









###### 3 




I will praise you, Lord, among the peoples; I will sing praises to you among the nations. 









###### 4 




For your faithful love is higher than the heavens, and your faithfulness reaches to the clouds. 









###### 5 




God, be exalted above the heavens, and let your glory be over the whole earth. 









###### 6 




Save with your right hand and answer me so that those you love may be rescued. 









###### 7 




God has spoken in his sanctuary:[^b] "I will celebrate! I will divide up Shechem. I will apportion the Valley of Succoth. 









###### 8 




Gilead is mine, Manasseh is mine, and Ephraim is my helmet; Judah is my scepter. 









###### 9 




Moab is my washbasin; I throw my sandal on Edom. I shout in triumph over Philistia." 









###### 10 




Who will bring me to the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom? 









###### 11 




God, haven't you rejected us? God, you do not march out with our armies. 









###### 12 




Give us aid against the foe, for human help is worthless. 









###### 13 




With God we will perform valiantly; he will trample our foes. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 108:1 Lit <em>praises, even my glory</em> [^b]: 108:7 Or <em>has promised by his holy nature</em>
