---
Aliases: [Psalms 111]
previous: ['Ps 110']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 112']
---
# Psalms 111

***










###### 1 




Hallelujah![^a] I will praise the Lord with all my heart in the assembly of the upright and in the congregation. 









###### 2 




The Lord's works are great, studied by all who delight in them. 









###### 3 




All that he does is splendid and majestic; his righteousness endures forever. 









###### 4 




He has caused his wondrous works to be remembered. The Lord is gracious and compassionate. 









###### 5 




He has provided food for those who fear him; he remembers his covenant forever. 









###### 6 




He has shown his people the power of his works by giving them the inheritance of the nations. 









###### 7 




The works of his hands are truth and justice; all his instructions are trustworthy. 









###### 8 




They are established forever and ever, enacted in truth and in uprightness. 









###### 9 




He has sent redemption to his people. He has ordained his covenant forever. His name is holy and awe-inspiring. 









###### 10 




The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom; all who follow his instructions[^b] have good insight. His praise endures forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 111:1 The lines of this poem form an acrostic. [^b]: 111:10 Lit <em>follow them</em>
