---
Aliases: [Psalms 146]
previous: ['Ps 145']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 147']
---
# Psalms 146

***










###### 1 




Hallelujah! My soul, praise the Lord. 









###### 2 




I will praise the Lord all my life; I will sing to my God as long as I live. 









###### 3 




Do not trust in nobles, in a son of man,[^a] who cannot save. 









###### 4 




When his breath[^b] leaves him, he returns to the ground; on that day his plans die. 









###### 5 




Happy is the one whose help is the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the Lord his God, 









###### 6 




the Maker of heaven and earth, the sea and everything in them. He remains faithful forever, 









###### 7 




executing justice for the exploited and giving food to the hungry. The Lord frees prisoners. 









###### 8 




The Lord opens the eyes of the blind. The Lord raises up those who are oppressed.[^c] The Lord loves the righteous. 









###### 9 




The Lord protects resident aliens and helps the fatherless and the widow, but he frustrates the ways of the wicked. 









###### 10 




The Lord reigns forever; Zion, your God reigns for all generations. Hallelujah! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 146:3 Or <em>a mere mortal</em> [^b]: 146:4 Or <em>spirit</em> [^c]: 146:8 Lit <em>bowed down</em>
