---
Aliases: [Psalms 132]
previous: ['Ps 131']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 133']
---
# Psalms 132

***










###### 1 




Lord, remember David and all the hardships he endured, 









###### 2 




and how he swore an oath to the Lord, making a vow to the Mighty One of Jacob: 









###### 3 




"I will not enter my house or get into my bed, 









###### 4 




I will not allow my eyes to sleep or my eyelids to slumber 









###### 5 




until I find a place for the Lord, a dwelling for the Mighty One of Jacob." 









###### 6 




We heard of the ark in Ephrathah;[^a] we found it in the fields of Jaar.[^b] 









###### 7 




Let's go to his dwelling place; let's worship at his footstool. 









###### 8 




Rise up, Lord, come to your resting place, you and your powerful ark. 









###### 9 




May your priests be clothed with righteousness, and may your faithful people shout for joy. 









###### 10 




For the sake of your servant David, do not reject your anointed one.[^c] 









###### 11 




The Lord swore an oath to David, a promise he will not abandon: "I will set one of your offspring[^d] on your throne. 









###### 12 




If your sons keep my covenant and my decrees that I will teach them, their sons will also sit on your throne forever." 









###### 13 




For the Lord has chosen Zion; he has desired it for his home: 









###### 14 




"This is my resting place forever; I will make my home here because I have desired it. 









###### 15 




I will abundantly bless its food; I will satisfy its needy with bread. 









###### 16 




I will clothe its priests with salvation, and its faithful people will shout for joy. 









###### 17 




There I will make a horn grow for David; I have prepared a lamp[^e] for my anointed one. 









###### 18 




I will clothe his enemies with shame, but the crown he wears[^f] will be glorious." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 132:6 = Bethlehem [^b]: 132:6 = Kiriath-jearim [^c]: 132:10 = the king [^d]: 132:11 Lit <em>set the fruit of your belly</em> [^e]: 132:17 Or <em>dominion</em> [^f]: 132:18 Lit <em>but on him his crown</em>
