---
Aliases: [Psalms 19]
previous: ['Ps 18']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 20']
---
# Psalms 19

***










###### 1 




The heavens declare the glory of God, and the expanse proclaims the work of his hands. 









###### 2 




Day after day they pour out speech; night after night they communicate knowledge.[^a] 









###### 3 




There is no speech; there are no words; their voice is not heard. 









###### 4 




Their message[^b] has gone out to the whole earth, and their words to the ends of the world. In the heavens he has pitched a tent for the sun. 









###### 5 




It is like a bridegroom coming from his home; it rejoices like an athlete running a course. 









###### 6 




It rises from one end of the heavens and circles to their other end; nothing is hidden from its heat. 









###### 7 




The instruction of the Lord is perfect, renewing one's life; the testimony of the Lord is trustworthy, making the inexperienced wise. 









###### 8 




The precepts of the Lord are right, making the heart glad; the command of the Lord is radiant, making the eyes light up. 









###### 9 




The fear of the Lord is pure, enduring forever; the ordinances of the Lord are reliable and altogether righteous. 









###### 10 




They are more desirable than gold-- than an abundance of pure gold; and sweeter than honey dripping from a honeycomb. 









###### 11 




In addition, your servant is warned by them, and in keeping them there is an abundant reward. 









###### 12 




Who perceives his unintentional sins? Cleanse me from my hidden faults. 









###### 13 




Moreover, keep your servant from willful sins; do not let them rule me. Then I will be blameless and cleansed from blatant rebellion. 









###### 14 




May the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable to you, Lord, my rock and my Redeemer. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 19:2 Or <em>Day to day pours out speech, and night to night communicates knowledge</em> [^b]: 19:4 LXX, Sym, Syr, Vg; MT reads <em>line</em>
