---
Aliases: [Psalms 144]
previous: ['Ps 143']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 145']
---
# Psalms 144

***










###### 1 




Blessed be the Lord, my rock who trains my hands for battle and my fingers for warfare. 









###### 2 




He is my faithful love and my fortress, my stronghold and my deliverer. He is my shield, and I take refuge in him; he subdues my people[^a] under me. 









###### 3 




Lord, what is a human that you care for him, a son of man[^b] that you think of him? 









###### 4 




A human is like a breath; his days are like a passing shadow. 









###### 5 




Lord, part your heavens and come down. Touch the mountains, and they will smoke. 









###### 6 




Flash your lightning and scatter the foe;[^c] shoot your arrows and rout them. 









###### 7 




Reach down[^d] from on high; rescue me from deep water, and set me free from the grasp of foreigners 









###### 8 




whose mouths speak lies, whose right hands are deceptive. 









###### 9 




God, I will sing a new song to you; I will play on a ten-stringed harp for you-- 









###### 10 




the one who gives victory to kings, who frees his servant David from the deadly sword. 









###### 11 




Set me free and rescue me from foreigners whose mouths speak lies, whose right hands are deceptive. 









###### 12 




Then our sons will be like plants nurtured in their youth, our daughters, like corner pillars that are carved in the palace style. 









###### 13 




Our storehouses will be full, supplying all kinds of produce; our flocks will increase by thousands and tens of thousands in our open fields. 









###### 14 




Our cattle will be well fed.[^e] There will be no breach in the walls, no going into captivity,[^f] and no cry of lament in our public squares. 









###### 15 




Happy are the people with such blessings. Happy are the people whose God is the Lord. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 144:2 Some Hb mss, DSS, Aq, Syr, Tg, Jer read <em>subdues peoples</em>; 2Sm 22:48; Ps 18:47 [^b]: 144:3 Or <em>a mere mortal</em> [^c]: 144:6 Lit <em>scatter them</em> [^d]: 144:7 Lit <em>down your hands</em> [^e]: 144:14 Or <em>will bear heavy loads</em>, or <em>will be pregnant</em> [^f]: 144:14 Or <em>be no plague, no miscarriage</em>
