---
Aliases: [Psalms 109]
previous: ['Ps 108']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 110']
---
# Psalms 109

***










###### 1 




God of my praise, do not be silent. 









###### 2 




For wicked and deceitful mouths open against me; they speak against me with lying tongues. 









###### 3 




They surround me with hateful words and attack me without cause. 









###### 4 




In return for my love they accuse me, but I continue to pray.[^a] 









###### 5 




They repay me evil for good, and hatred for my love. 









###### 6 




Set a wicked person over him; let an accuser[^b] stand at his right hand. 









###### 7 




When he is judged, let him be found guilty, and let his prayer be counted as sin. 









###### 8 




Let his days be few; let another take over his position. 









###### 9 




Let his children be fatherless and his wife a widow. 









###### 10 




Let his children wander as beggars, searching for food far[^c] from their demolished homes. 









###### 11 




Let a creditor seize all he has; let strangers plunder what he has worked for. 









###### 12 




Let no one show him kindness, and let no one be gracious to his fatherless children. 









###### 13 




Let the line of his descendants be cut off; let their name be blotted out in the next generation. 









###### 14 




Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered before the Lord, and do not let his mother's sin be blotted out. 









###### 15 




Let their sins[^d] always remain before the Lord, and let him remove[^e] all memory of them from the earth. 









###### 16 




For he did not think to show kindness, but pursued the suffering, needy, and brokenhearted in order to put them to death. 









###### 17 




He loved cursing--let it fall on him; he took no delight in blessing--let it be far from him. 









###### 18 




He wore cursing like his coat-- let it enter his body like water and go into his bones like oil. 









###### 19 




Let it be like a robe he wraps around himself, like a belt he always wears. 









###### 20 




Let this be the Lord's payment to my accusers, to those who speak evil against me. 









###### 21 




But you, Lord, my Lord, deal kindly with me for your name's sake; because your faithful love is good, rescue me. 









###### 22 




For I am suffering and needy; my heart is wounded within me. 









###### 23 




I fade away like a lengthening shadow; I am shaken off like a locust. 









###### 24 




My knees are weak from fasting, and my body is emaciated.[^f] 









###### 25 




I have become an object of ridicule to my accusers;[^g] when they see me, they shake their heads in scorn. 









###### 26 




Help me, Lord my God; save me according to your faithful love 









###### 27 




so they may know that this is your hand and that you, Lord, have done it. 









###### 28 




Though they curse, you will bless. When they rise up, they will be put to shame, but your servant will rejoice. 









###### 29 




My accusers will be clothed with disgrace; they will wear their shame like a cloak. 









###### 30 




I will fervently thank the Lord with my mouth; I will praise him in the presence of many. 









###### 31 




For he stands at the right hand of the needy to save him from those who would condemn him. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 109:4 Lit <em>but I, prayer</em> [^b]: 109:6 Or <em>adversary</em> [^c]: 109:10 LXX reads <em>beggars, driven far</em> [^d]: 109:15 Lit <em>Let them</em> [^e]: 109:15 Or <em>cut off</em> [^f]: 109:24 Lit <em>denied from fat</em> [^g]: 109:25 Lit <em>to them</em>
