---
Aliases: [Psalms 140]
previous: ['Ps 139']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 141']
---
# Psalms 140

***










###### 1 




Rescue me, Lord, from evil men. Keep me safe from violent men 









###### 2 




who plan evil in their hearts. They stir up wars all day long. 









###### 3 




They make their tongues as sharp as a snake's bite; viper's venom is under their lips.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 4 




Protect me, Lord, from the power of the wicked. Keep me safe from violent men who plan to make me stumble.[^a] 









###### 5 




The proud hide a trap with ropes for me; they spread a net along the path and set snares for me.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 6 




I say to the Lord, "You are my God." Listen, Lord, to my cry for help. 









###### 7 




Lord, my Lord, my strong Savior, you shield my head on the day of battle. 









###### 8 




Lord, do not grant the desires of the wicked; do not let them achieve their goals. Otherwise, they will become proud.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 9 




When those who surround me rise up,[^b] may the trouble their lips cause overwhelm them. 









###### 10 




Let hot coals fall on them. Let them be thrown into the fire, into the abyss, never again to rise. 









###### 11 




Do not let a slanderer stay in the land. Let evil relentlessly[^c] hunt down a violent man. 









###### 12 




I[^d] know that the Lord upholds the just cause of the poor, justice for the needy. 









###### 13 




Surely the righteous will praise your name; the upright will live in your presence. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 140:4 Lit <em>to trip up my steps</em> [^b]: 140:9 Lit <em>Head of those who surround me</em> [^c]: 140:11 Hb obscure [^d]: 140:12 Alt Hb tradition reads <em>You</em>
