---
Aliases: [Psalms 17]
previous: ['Ps 16']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 18']
---
# Psalms 17

***










###### 1 




Lord, hear a just cause; pay attention to my cry; listen to my prayer-- from lips free of deceit. 









###### 2 




Let my vindication come from you, for you see what is right. 









###### 3 




You have tested my heart; you have examined me at night. You have tried me and found nothing evil; I have determined that my mouth will not sin.[^a] 









###### 4 




Concerning what people do: by the words from your lips I have avoided the ways of the violent. 









###### 5 




My steps are on your paths; my feet have not slipped. 









###### 6 




I call on you, God, because you will answer me; listen closely to me; hear what I say. 









###### 7 




Display the wonders of your faithful love, Savior of all who seek refuge from those who rebel against your right hand.[^b] 









###### 8 




Protect me as the pupil of your eye; hide me in the shadow of your wings 









###### 9 




from[^c] the wicked who treat me violently,[^d] my deadly enemies who surround me. 









###### 10 




They are uncaring;[^e] their mouths speak arrogantly. 









###### 11 




They advance against me;[^f] now they surround me. They are determined[^g] to throw me to the ground. 









###### 12 




They are[^h] like a lion eager to tear, like a young lion lurking in ambush. 









###### 13 




Rise up, Lord! Confront him; bring him down. With your sword, save me from the wicked. 









###### 14 




With your hand, Lord, save me from men, from men of the world whose portion is in this life: You fill their bellies with what you have in store; their sons are satisfied, and they leave their surplus to their children. 









###### 15 




But I will see your face in righteousness; when I awake, I will be satisfied with your presence.[^i] ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 17:3 Or <em>evil; my mouth will not sin</em> [^b]: 17:7 Or <em>love, you who save with your right hand those seeking refuge from adversaries</em> [^c]: 17:9 Lit <em>from the presence of</em> [^d]: 17:9 Or <em>who plunder me</em> [^e]: 17:10 Lit <em>have closed up their fat</em> [^f]: 17:11 Vg; MT reads <em>Our steps</em> [^g]: 17:11 Lit <em>They set their eyes</em> [^h]: 17:12 Lit <em>He is</em> [^i]: 17:15 Lit <em>form</em>
