---
Aliases: [Psalms 112]
previous: ['Ps 111']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 113']
---
# Psalms 112

***










###### 1 




Hallelujah![^a] Happy is the person who fears the Lord, taking great delight in his commands. 









###### 2 




His descendants will be powerful in the land; the generation of the upright will be blessed. 









###### 3 




Wealth and riches are in his house, and his righteousness endures forever. 









###### 4 




Light shines in the darkness for the upright. He is gracious, compassionate, and righteous. 









###### 5 




Good will come to the one who lends generously and conducts his business fairly. 









###### 6 




He will never be shaken. The righteous one will be remembered forever. 









###### 7 




He will not fear bad news; his heart is confident, trusting in the Lord. 









###### 8 




His heart is assured; he will not fear. In the end he will look in triumph on his foes. 









###### 9 




He distributes freely to the poor; his righteousness endures forever. His horn will be exalted in honor. 









###### 10 




The wicked one will see it and be angry; he will gnash his teeth in despair. The desire of the wicked leads to ruin. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 112:1 The lines of this poem form an acrostic.
