---
Aliases: [Psalms 139]
previous: ['Ps 138']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 140']
---
# Psalms 139

***










###### 1 




Lord, you have searched me and known me. 









###### 2 




You know when I sit down and when I stand up; you understand my thoughts from far away. 









###### 3 




You observe my travels and my rest; you are aware of all my ways. 









###### 4 




Before a word is on my tongue, you know all about it, Lord. 









###### 5 




You have encircled me; you have placed your hand on me. 









###### 6 




This wondrous knowledge is beyond me. It is lofty; I am unable to reach it. 









###### 7 




Where can I go to escape your Spirit? Where can I flee from your presence? 









###### 8 




If I go up to heaven, you are there; if I make my bed in Sheol, you are there. 









###### 9 




If I fly on the wings of the dawn and settle down on the western horizon,[^a] 









###### 10 




even there your hand will lead me; your right hand will hold on to me. 









###### 11 




If I say, "Surely the darkness will hide me, and the light around me will be night"-- 









###### 12 




even the darkness is not dark to you. The night shines like the day; darkness and light are alike to you. 









###### 13 




For it was you who created my inward parts;[^b] you knit me together in my mother's womb. 









###### 14 




I will praise you because I have been remarkably and wondrously made.[^c][^d] Your works are wondrous, and I know this very well. 









###### 15 




My bones were not hidden from you when I was made in secret, when I was formed in the depths of the earth. 









###### 16 




Your eyes saw me when I was formless; all my days were written in your book and planned before a single one of them began. 









###### 17 




God, how precious[^e] your thoughts are to me; how vast their sum is! 









###### 18 




If I counted them, they would outnumber the grains of sand; when I wake up,[^f] I am still with you. 









###### 19 




God, if only you would kill the wicked-- you bloodthirsty men, stay away from me-- 









###### 20 




who invoke you deceitfully. Your enemies swear by you falsely. 









###### 21 




Lord, don't I hate those who hate you, and detest those who rebel against you? 









###### 22 




I hate them with extreme hatred; I consider them my enemies. 









###### 23 




Search me, God, and know my heart; test me and know my concerns. 









###### 24 




See if there is any offensive[^g] way in me; lead me in the everlasting way. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 139:9 Lit <em>the end of the sea</em> [^b]: 139:13 Lit <em>my kidneys</em> [^c]: 139:14 DSS, some LXX mss, Syr, Jer read <em>because you are remarkable and wonderful</em> [^d]: 139:14 Hb obscure [^e]: 139:17 Or <em>difficult</em> [^f]: 139:18 Some Hb mss read <em>I come to an end</em> [^g]: 139:24 Or <em>idolatrous</em>
