---
Aliases: [Psalms 149]
previous: ['Ps 148']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 150']
---
# Psalms 149

***










###### 1 




Hallelujah! Sing to the Lord a new song, his praise in the assembly of the faithful. 









###### 2 




Let Israel celebrate its Maker; let the children of Zion rejoice in their King. 









###### 3 




Let them praise his name with dancing and make music to him with tambourine and lyre. 









###### 4 




For the Lord takes pleasure in his people; he adorns the humble with salvation. 









###### 5 




Let the faithful celebrate in triumphal glory; let them shout for joy on their beds. 









###### 6 




Let the exaltation of God be in their mouths[^a] and a double-edged sword in their hands, 









###### 7 




inflicting vengeance on the nations and punishment on the peoples, 









###### 8 




binding their kings with chains and their dignitaries with iron shackles, 









###### 9 




carrying out the judgment decreed against them. This honor is for all his faithful people. Hallelujah! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 149:6 Lit <em>throat</em>
