---
Aliases: [Psalms 141]
previous: ['Ps 140']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 142']
---
# Psalms 141

***










###### 1 




Lord, I call on you; hurry to help me. Listen to my voice when I call on you. 









###### 2 




May my prayer be set before you as incense, the raising of my hands as the evening offering. 









###### 3 




Lord, set up a guard for my mouth; keep watch at the door of my lips. 









###### 4 




Do not let my heart turn to any evil thing or perform wicked acts with evildoers. Do not let me feast on their delicacies. 









###### 5 




Let the righteous one strike me-- it is an act of faithful love; let him rebuke me-- it is oil for my head; let me[^a] not refuse it. Even now my prayer is against the evil acts of the wicked.[^b] 









###### 6 




When their rulers[^c] will be thrown off the sides of a cliff, the people[^d] will listen to my words, for they are pleasing. 









###### 7 




As when one plows and breaks up the soil, turning up rocks, so our[^e] bones have been scattered at the mouth of Sheol. 









###### 8 




But my eyes look to you, Lord, my Lord. I seek refuge in you; do not let me die.[^f] 









###### 9 




Protect me from the trap they have set for me, and from the snares of evildoers. 









###### 10 




Let the wicked fall into their own nets, while I pass by safely. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 141:5 Lit <em>my head</em> [^b]: 141:5 Lit <em>of them</em> [^c]: 141:6 Or <em>judges</em> [^d]: 141:6 Lit <em>cliff, and they</em> [^e]: 141:7 DSS reads <em>my</em>; some LXX mss, Syr read <em>their</em> [^f]: 141:8 Or <em>not pour out my life</em>
