---
Aliases: [Psalms 145]
previous: ['Ps 144']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 146']
---
# Psalms 145

***










###### 1 




I[^a] exalt you, my God the King, and bless your name forever and ever. 









###### 2 




I will bless you every day; I will praise your name forever and ever. 









###### 3 




The Lord is great and is highly praised; his greatness is unsearchable. 









###### 4 




One generation will declare your works to the next and will proclaim your mighty acts. 









###### 5 




I[^b] will speak of your splendor and glorious majesty and[^c] your wondrous works. 









###### 6 




They will proclaim the power of your awe-inspiring acts, and I will declare your greatness.[^d] 









###### 7 




They will give a testimony of your great goodness and will joyfully sing of your righteousness. 









###### 8 




The Lord is gracious and compassionate, slow to anger and great in faithful love. 









###### 9 




The Lord is good to everyone; his compassion rests on all he has made. 









###### 10 




All you have made will thank you, Lord; the[^e] faithful will bless you. 









###### 11 




They will speak of the glory of your kingdom and will declare your might, 









###### 12 




informing all people of your mighty acts and of the glorious splendor of your[^f] kingdom. 









###### 13 




Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom; your rule is for all generations. The Lord is faithful in all his words and gracious in all his actions.[^g] 









###### 14 




The Lord helps all who fall; he raises up all who are oppressed.[^h] 









###### 15 




All eyes look to you, and you give them their food at the proper time. 









###### 16 




You open your hand and satisfy the desire of every living thing. 









###### 17 




The Lord is righteous in all his ways and faithful in all his acts. 









###### 18 




The Lord is near all who call out to him, all who call out to him with integrity. 









###### 19 




He fulfills the desires of those who fear him; he hears their cry for help and saves them. 









###### 20 




The Lord guards all those who love him, but he destroys all the wicked. 









###### 21 




My mouth will declare the Lord's praise; let every living thing bless his holy name forever and ever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 145:1 The lines of this poem form an acrostic. [^b]: 145:5 LXX, Syr read <em>They</em> [^c]: 145:5 LXX, Syr read <em>and they will tell of</em> [^d]: 145:6 Alt Hb tradition, Jer read <em>great deeds</em> [^e]: 145:10 Lit <em>your</em> [^f]: 145:12 LXX, Syr, Jer; MT reads <em>his</em> [^g]: 145:13 One Hb ms, DSS, LXX, Syr; other Hb mss omit The Lord is faithful in all his words and gracious in all his actions. [^h]: 145:14 Lit <em>bowed down</em>
