---
Aliases: [Psalms 116]
previous: ['Ps 115']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 117']
---
# Psalms 116

***










###### 1 




I love the Lord because he has heard my appeal for mercy. 









###### 2 




Because he has turned his ear to me, I will call out to him as long as I live. 









###### 3 




The ropes of death were wrapped around me, and the torments of Sheol overcame me; I encountered trouble and sorrow. 









###### 4 




Then I called on the name of the Lord: "Lord, save me!" 









###### 5 




The Lord is gracious and righteous; our God is compassionate. 









###### 6 




The Lord guards the inexperienced; I was helpless, and he saved me. 









###### 7 




Return to your rest, my soul, for the Lord has been good to you. 









###### 8 




For you, Lord, rescued me from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from stumbling. 









###### 9 




I will walk before the Lord in the land of the living. 









###### 10 




I believed, even when I said, "I am severely oppressed." 









###### 11 




In my alarm I said, "Everyone is a liar." 









###### 12 




How can I repay the Lord for all the good he has done for me? 









###### 13 




I will take the cup of salvation and call on the name of the Lord. 









###### 14 




I will fulfill my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people. 









###### 15 




The death of his faithful ones is valuable in the Lord's sight. 









###### 16 




Lord, I am indeed your servant; I am your servant, the son of your female servant. You have loosened my bonds. 









###### 17 




I will offer you a thanksgiving sacrifice and call on the name of the Lord. 









###### 18 




I will fulfill my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people, 









###### 19 




in the courts of the Lord's house-- within you, Jerusalem. Hallelujah! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
