---
Aliases: [Psalms 138]
previous: ['Ps 137']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 139']
---
# Psalms 138

***










###### 1 




I will give you thanks with all my heart; I will sing your praise before the heavenly beings.[^a] 









###### 2 




I will bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name for your constant love and truth. You have exalted your name and your promise above everything else.[^b] 









###### 3 




On the day I called, you answered me; you increased strength within me.[^c] 









###### 4 




All the kings on earth will give you thanks, Lord, when they hear what you have promised.[^d] 









###### 5 




They will sing of the Lord's ways, for the Lord's glory is great. 









###### 6 




Though the Lord is exalted, he takes note of the humble; but he knows the haughty from a distance. 









###### 7 




If I walk into the thick of danger, you will preserve my life from the anger of my enemies. You will extend your hand; your right hand will save me. 









###### 8 




The Lord will fulfill his purpose for me. Lord, your faithful love endures forever; do not abandon the work of your hands. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 138:1 Or <em>before the gods</em>, or <em>before judges</em>, or <em>before kings</em>; Hb <i class="transliteration">elohim_ [^b]: 138:2 Or <em>You have exalted your promise above all your name</em> [^c]: 138:3 Hb obscure [^d]: 138:4 Lit <em>hear the words of your mouth</em>
