---
Aliases: [Psalms 147]
previous: ['Ps 146']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 148']
---
# Psalms 147

***










###### 1 




Hallelujah! How good it is to sing to our God, for praise is pleasant and lovely. 









###### 2 




The Lord rebuilds Jerusalem; he gathers Israel's exiled people. 









###### 3 




He heals the brokenhearted and bandages their wounds. 









###### 4 




He counts the number of the stars; he gives names to all of them. 









###### 5 




Our Lord is great, vast in power; his understanding is infinite.[^a] 









###### 6 




The Lord helps the oppressed but brings the wicked to the ground. 









###### 7 




Sing to the Lord with thanksgiving; play the lyre to our God, 









###### 8 




who covers the sky with clouds, prepares rain for the earth, and causes grass to grow on the hills. 









###### 9 




He provides the animals with their food, and the young ravens what they cry for. 









###### 10 




He is not impressed by the strength of a horse; he does not value the power of a warrior.[^b] 









###### 11 




The Lord values those who fear him, those who put their hope in his faithful love. 









###### 12 




Exalt the Lord, Jerusalem; praise your God, Zion! 









###### 13 




For he strengthens the bars of your city gates and blesses your children within you. 









###### 14 




He endows your territory with prosperity;[^c] he satisfies you with the finest wheat. 









###### 15 




He sends his command throughout the earth; his word runs swiftly. 









###### 16 




He spreads snow like wool; he scatters frost like ashes; 









###### 17 




he throws his hailstones like crumbs. Who can withstand his cold? 









###### 18 




He sends his word and melts them; he unleashes his winds,[^d] and the water flows. 









###### 19 




He declares his word to Jacob, his statutes and judgments to Israel. 









###### 20 




He has not done this for every nation; they do not know his judgments. Hallelujah! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 147:5 Lit <em>understanding has no number</em> [^b]: 147:10 Lit <em>the legs of the man</em> [^c]: 147:14 Or <em>peace</em> [^d]: 147:18 Or <em>breath</em>
