---
Aliases: [Psalms 10]
previous: ['Ps 9']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 11']
---
# Psalms 10

***










###### 1 




Lord,[^a][^b] why do you stand so far away? Why do you hide in times of trouble? 









###### 2 




In arrogance the wicked relentlessly pursue their victims; let them be caught in the schemes they have devised. 









###### 3 




For the wicked one boasts about his own cravings; the one who is greedy curses[^c] and despises the Lord. 









###### 4 




In all his scheming, the wicked person arrogantly thinks,[^d] "There's no accountability, since there's no God." 









###### 5 




His ways are always secure;[^e] your lofty judgments have no effect on him;[^f] he scoffs at all his adversaries. 









###### 6 




He says to himself, "I will never be moved-- from generation to generation I will be without calamity." 









###### 7 




Cursing, deceit, and violence fill his mouth; trouble and malice are under his tongue. 









###### 8 




He waits in ambush near settlements; he kills the innocent in secret places. His eyes are on the lookout for the helpless; 









###### 9 




he lurks in secret like a lion in a thicket. He lurks in order to seize a victim; he seizes a victim and drags him in his net. 









###### 10 




So he is oppressed and beaten down; helpless people fall because of the wicked one's strength. 









###### 11 




He says to himself, "God has forgotten; he hides his face and will never see." 









###### 12 




Rise up, Lord God! Lift up your hand. Do not forget the oppressed. 









###### 13 




Why has the wicked person despised God? He says to himself, "You will not demand an account." 









###### 14 




But you yourself have seen trouble and grief, observing it in order to take the matter into your hands. The helpless one entrusts himself to you; you are a helper of the fatherless. 









###### 15 




Break the arm of the wicked, evil person, until you look for his wickedness, but it can't be found. 









###### 16 




The Lord is King forever and ever; the nations will perish from his land. 









###### 17 




Lord, you have heard the desire of the humble; you will strengthen their hearts. You will listen carefully, 









###### 18 




doing justice for the fatherless and the oppressed so that mere humans from the earth may terrify them no more. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 10:1 Some Hb mss, LXX connect Pss 9–10. [^b]: 10:1 Together Pss 9–10 form a partial acrostic. [^c]: 10:3 Or <em>he blesses the greedy</em> [^d]: 10:4 Lit <em>wicked according to the height of his nose</em> [^e]: 10:5 Or <em>prosperous</em> [^f]: 10:5 Lit <em>judgments are away from in front of him</em>
