---
Aliases: [Psalms 11]
previous: ['Ps 10']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 12']
---
# Psalms 11

***










###### 1 




I have taken refuge in the Lord. How can you say to me, "Escape to the mountains[^a] like a bird! 









###### 2 




For look, the wicked string bows; they put their arrows on bowstrings to shoot from the shadows at the upright in heart. 









###### 3 




When the foundations are destroyed, what can the righteous do?" 









###### 4 




The Lord is in his holy temple; the Lord--his throne is in heaven. His eyes watch; his gaze[^b] examines everyone.[^c] 









###### 5 




The Lord examines the righteous, but he hates the wicked and[^d] those who love violence. 









###### 6 




Let him rain burning coals[^e] and sulfur on the wicked; let a scorching wind be the portion in their cup. 









###### 7 




For the Lord is righteous; he loves righteous deeds. The upright will see his face. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 11:1 Lit <em>your mountain</em> [^b]: 11:4 Lit <em>eyelids</em> [^c]: 11:4 Or <em>examines the descendants of Adam</em> [^d]: 11:5 Or <em>righteous and the wicked, and he hates</em> [^e]: 11:6 Sym; MT reads <em>rain snares, fire</em>
