---
Aliases: [Psalms 21]
previous: ['Ps 20']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 22']
---
# Psalms 21

***










###### 1 




Lord, the king finds joy in your strength. How greatly he rejoices in your victory! 









###### 2 




You have given him his heart's desire and have not denied the request of his lips.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 3 




For you meet him with rich blessings; you place a crown of pure gold on his head. 









###### 4 




He asked you for life, and you gave it to him-- length of days forever and ever. 









###### 5 




His glory is great through your victory; you confer majesty and splendor on him. 









###### 6 




You give him blessings forever; you cheer him with joy in your presence. 









###### 7 




For the king relies on the Lord; through the faithful love of the Most High he is not shaken. 









###### 8 




Your hand will capture all your enemies; your right hand will seize those who hate you. 









###### 9 




You will make them burn like a fiery furnace when you appear; the Lord will engulf them in his wrath, and fire will devour them. 









###### 10 




You will wipe their progeny from the earth and their offspring from the human race.[^a] 









###### 11 




Though they intend to harm[^b] you and devise a wicked plan, they will not prevail. 









###### 12 




Instead, you will put them to flight when you ready your bowstrings to shoot at them. 









###### 13 




Be exalted, Lord, in your strength; we will sing and praise your might. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 21:10 Or <em>the descendants of Adam</em> [^b]: 21:11 Lit <em>they stretch out harm against</em>
