---
Aliases: [Psalms 29]
previous: ['Ps 28']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 30']
---
# Psalms 29

***










###### 1 




Ascribe to the Lord, you heavenly beings,[^a] ascribe to the Lord glory and strength. 









###### 2 




Ascribe to the Lord the glory due his name; worship the Lord in the splendor of his holiness.[^b] 









###### 3 




The voice of the Lord is above the waters. The God of glory thunders-- the Lord, above the vast water, 









###### 4 




the voice of the Lord in power, the voice of the Lord in splendor. 









###### 5 




The voice of the Lord breaks the cedars; the Lord shatters the cedars of Lebanon. 









###### 6 




He makes Lebanon skip like a calf, and Sirion, like a young wild ox. 









###### 7 




The voice of the Lord flashes flames of fire. 









###### 8 




The voice of the Lord shakes the wilderness; the Lord shakes the wilderness of Kadesh. 









###### 9 




The voice of the Lord makes the deer give birth[^c] and strips the woodlands bare. In his temple all cry, "Glory!" 









###### 10 




The Lord sits enthroned over the flood; the Lord sits enthroned, King forever. 









###### 11 




The Lord gives his people strength; the Lord blesses his people with peace. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 29:1 Or <em>you sons of gods</em>, or <em>you sons of mighty ones</em> [^b]: 29:2 Or <em>in holy attire</em>, or <em>in holy appearance</em> [^c]: 29:9 Or <em>the oaks shake</em>
