---
Aliases: [Psalms 25]
previous: ['Ps 24']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 26']
---
# Psalms 25

***










###### 1 




Lord, I appeal to you.[^a] 









###### 2 




My God, I trust in you. Do not let me be disgraced; do not let my enemies gloat over me. 









###### 3 




No one who waits for you will be disgraced; those who act treacherously without cause will be disgraced. 









###### 4 




Make your ways known to me, Lord; teach me your paths. 









###### 5 




Guide me in your truth and teach me, for you are the God of my salvation; I wait for you all day long. 









###### 6 




Remember, Lord, your compassion and your faithful love, for they have existed from antiquity.[^b] 









###### 7 




Do not remember the sins of my youth or my acts of rebellion; in keeping with your faithful love, remember me because of your goodness, Lord. 









###### 8 




The Lord is good and upright; therefore he shows sinners the way. 









###### 9 




He leads the humble in what is right and teaches them his way. 









###### 10 




All the Lord's ways show faithful love and truth to those who keep his covenant and decrees. 









###### 11 




Lord, for the sake of your name, forgive my iniquity, for it is immense. 









###### 12 




Who is this person who fears the Lord? He will show him the way he should choose. 









###### 13 




He will live a good life, and his descendants will inherit the land.[^c] 









###### 14 




The secret counsel of the Lord is for those who fear him, and he reveals his covenant to them. 









###### 15 




My eyes are always on the Lord, for he will pull my feet out of the net. 









###### 16 




Turn to me and be gracious to me, for I am alone and afflicted. 









###### 17 




The distresses of my heart increase;[^d] bring me out of my sufferings. 









###### 18 




Consider my affliction and trouble, and forgive all my sins. 









###### 19 




Consider my enemies; they are numerous, and they hate me violently. 









###### 20 




Guard me and rescue me; do not let me be disgraced, for I take refuge in you. 









###### 21 




May integrity and what is right watch over me, for I wait for you. 









###### 22 




God, redeem Israel, from all its distresses. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 25:1 Or To you, Lord, I lift up my soul [^b]: 25:6 Or <em>everlasting</em> [^c]: 25:13 Or <em>earth</em> [^d]: 25:17 Or <em>Relieve the distresses of my heart</em>
