---
Aliases: [Psalms 28]
previous: ['Ps 27']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 29']
---
# Psalms 28

***










###### 1 




Lord, I call to you; my rock, do not be deaf to me. If you remain silent to me, I will be like those going down to the Pit. 









###### 2 




Listen to the sound of my pleading when I cry to you for help, when I lift up my hands toward your holy sanctuary. 









###### 3 




Do not drag me away with the wicked, with the evildoers, who speak in friendly ways with their neighbors while malice is in their hearts. 









###### 4 




Repay them according to what they have done-- according to the evil of their deeds. Repay them according to the work of their hands; give them back what they deserve. 









###### 5 




Because they do not consider what the Lord has done or the work of his hands, he will tear them down and not rebuild them. 









###### 6 




Blessed be the Lord, for he has heard the sound of my pleading. 









###### 7 




The Lord is my strength and my shield; my heart trusts in him, and I am helped. Therefore my heart celebrates, and I give thanks to him with my song. 









###### 8 




The Lord is the strength of his people;[^a] he is a stronghold of salvation for his anointed. 









###### 9 




Save your people, bless your possession, shepherd them, and carry them forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 28:8 Some Hb mss, LXX, Syr; other Hb mss read <em>strength for them</em>
