---
Aliases: [Psalms 27]
previous: ['Ps 26']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 28']
---
# Psalms 27

***










###### 1 




The Lord is my light and my salvation-- whom should I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life-- whom should I dread? 









###### 2 




When evildoers came against me to devour my flesh, my foes and my enemies stumbled and fell. 









###### 3 




Though an army deploys against me, my heart will not be afraid; though a war breaks out against me, I will still be confident. 









###### 4 




I have asked one thing from the Lord; it is what I desire: to dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, gazing on the beauty of the Lord and seeking him in his temple. 









###### 5 




For he will conceal me in his shelter in the day of adversity; he will hide me under the cover of his tent; he will set me high on a rock. 









###### 6 




Then my head will be high above my enemies around me; I will offer sacrifices in his tent with shouts of joy. I will sing and make music to the Lord. 









###### 7 




Lord, hear my voice when I call; be gracious to me and answer me. 









###### 8 




My heart says this about you: "Seek[^a] his face." Lord, I will seek your face. 









###### 9 




Do not hide your face from me; do not turn your servant away in anger. You have been my helper; do not leave me or abandon me, God of my salvation. 









###### 10 




Even if my father and mother abandon me, the Lord cares for me. 









###### 11 




Because of my adversaries, show me your way, Lord, and lead me on a level path. 









###### 12 




Do not give me over to the will of my foes, for false witnesses rise up against me, breathing violence. 









###### 13 




I am certain that I will see the Lord's goodness in the land of the living. 









###### 14 




Wait for the Lord; be strong, and let your heart be courageous. Wait for the Lord. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 27:8 The command is pl in Hb
