---
Aliases: [Psalms 24]
previous: ['Ps 23']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 25']
---
# Psalms 24

***










###### 1 




The earth and everything in it, the world and its inhabitants, belong to the Lord; 









###### 2 




for he laid its foundation on the seas and established it on the rivers. 









###### 3 




Who may ascend the mountain of the Lord? Who may stand in his holy place? 









###### 4 




The one who has clean hands and a pure heart, who has not appealed to[^a] what is false, and who has not sworn deceitfully. 









###### 5 




He will receive blessing from the Lord, and righteousness[^b] from the God of his salvation. 









###### 6 




Such is the generation of those who inquire of him, who seek the face of the God of Jacob.[^c]<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 7 




Lift up your heads, you gates! Rise up, ancient doors! Then the King of glory will come in. 









###### 8 




Who is this King of glory? The Lord, strong and mighty, the Lord, mighty in battle. 









###### 9 




Lift up your heads, you gates! Rise up, ancient doors! Then the King of glory will come in. 









###### 10 




Who is he, this King of glory? The Lord of Armies, he is the King of glory.<i class="selah">Selah_ ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 24:4 Lit <em>not lifted up his soul to</em> [^b]: 24:5 Or <em>vindication</em> [^c]: 24:6 LXX; some Hb mss, Syr read <em>seek your face, God of Jacob</em>; some Hb mss read <em>seek your face, Jacob</em>
