---
Aliases: [Psalms 20]
previous: ['Ps 19']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 21']
---
# Psalms 20

***










###### 1 




May the Lord answer you in a day of trouble; may the name of Jacob's God protect you. 









###### 2 




May he send you help from the sanctuary and sustain you from Zion. 









###### 3 




May he remember all your offerings and accept your burnt offering.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 4 




May he give you what your heart desires and fulfill your whole purpose. 









###### 5 




Let us shout for joy at your victory and lift the banner in the name of our God. May the Lord fulfill all your requests. 









###### 6 




Now I know that the Lord gives victory to his anointed; he will answer him from his holy heaven with mighty victories from his right hand. 









###### 7 




Some take pride in chariots, and others in horses, but we take pride in the name of the Lord our God. 









###### 8 




They collapse and fall, but we rise and stand firm. 









###### 9 




Lord, give victory to the king! May he[^a] answer us on the day that we call. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 20:9 Or Lord, save. May the king
