---
Aliases: [Psalms 26]
previous: ['Ps 25']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 27']
---
# Psalms 26

***










###### 1 




Vindicate me, Lord, because I have lived with integrity and have trusted in the Lord without wavering. 









###### 2 




Test me, Lord, and try me; examine my heart and mind. 









###### 3 




For your faithful love guides me,[^a] and I live by your truth. 









###### 4 




I do not sit with the worthless or associate with hypocrites. 









###### 5 




I hate a crowd of evildoers, and I do not sit with the wicked. 









###### 6 




I wash my hands in innocence and go around your altar, Lord, 









###### 7 




raising my voice in thanksgiving and telling about your wondrous works. 









###### 8 




Lord, I love the house where you dwell, the place where your glory resides. 









###### 9 




Do not destroy me along with sinners, or my life along with men of bloodshed 









###### 10 




in whose hands are evil schemes and whose right hands are filled with bribes. 









###### 11 




But I live with integrity; redeem me and be gracious to me. 









###### 12 




My foot stands on level ground; I will bless the Lord in the assemblies. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 26:3 Lit <em>love is in front of my eyes</em>
