---
Aliases: [Psalms 32]
previous: ['Ps 31']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 33']
---
# Psalms 32

***










###### 1 




How joyful is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered! 









###### 2 




How joyful is a person whom the Lord does not charge with iniquity and in whose spirit is no deceit! 









###### 3 




When I kept silent, my bones became brittle from my groaning all day long. 









###### 4 




For day and night your hand was heavy on me; my strength was drained[^a] as in the summer's heat.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 5 




Then I acknowledged my sin to you and did not conceal my iniquity. I said, "I will confess my transgressions to the Lord," and you forgave the guilt of my sin.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 6 




Therefore let everyone who is faithful pray to you immediately.[^b] When great floodwaters come, they will not reach him. 









###### 7 




You are my hiding place; you protect me from trouble. You surround me with joyful shouts of deliverance.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 8 




I will instruct you and show you the way to go; with my eye on you, I will give counsel. 









###### 9 




Do not be like a horse or mule, without understanding, that must be controlled with bit and bridle or else it will not come near you. 









###### 10 




Many pains come to the wicked, but the one who trusts in the Lord will have faithful love surrounding him. 









###### 11 




Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, you righteous ones; shout for joy, all you upright in heart. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 32:4 Hb obscure [^b]: 32:6 Lit <em>you at a time of finding</em>
