---
Aliases: [Psalms 33]
previous: ['Ps 32']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 34']
---
# Psalms 33

***










###### 1 




Rejoice in the Lord, you righteous ones; praise from the upright is beautiful. 









###### 2 




Praise the Lord with the lyre; make music to him with a ten-stringed harp. 









###### 3 




Sing a new song to him; play skillfully on the strings, with a joyful shout. 









###### 4 




For the word of the Lord is right, and all his work is trustworthy. 









###### 5 




He loves righteousness and justice; the earth is full of the Lord's unfailing love. 









###### 6 




The heavens were made by the word of the Lord, and all the stars, by the breath of his mouth. 









###### 7 




He gathers the water of the sea into a heap;[^a] he puts the depths into storehouses. 









###### 8 




Let the whole earth fear the Lord; let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. 









###### 9 




For he spoke, and it came into being; he commanded, and it came into existence. 









###### 10 




The Lord frustrates the counsel of the nations; he thwarts the plans of the peoples. 









###### 11 




The counsel of the Lord stands forever, the plans of his heart from generation to generation. 









###### 12 




Happy is the nation whose God is the Lord-- the people he has chosen to be his own possession! 









###### 13 




The Lord looks down from heaven; he observes everyone. 









###### 14 




He gazes on all the inhabitants of the earth from his dwelling place. 









###### 15 




He forms the hearts of them all; he considers all their works. 









###### 16 




A king is not saved by a large army; a warrior will not be rescued by great strength. 









###### 17 




The horse is a false hope for safety; it provides no escape by its great power. 









###### 18 




But look, the Lord keeps his eye on those who fear him-- those who depend on his faithful love 









###### 19 




to rescue them from death and to keep them alive in famine. 









###### 20 




We wait for the Lord; he is our help and shield. 









###### 21 




For our hearts rejoice in him because we trust in his holy name. 









###### 22 




May your faithful love rest on us, Lord, for we put our hope in you. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 33:7 LXX, Tg, Syr, Vg, Jer read <em>sea as in a bottle</em>
