---
Aliases: [Psalms 37]
previous: ['Ps 36']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 38']
---
# Psalms 37

***










###### 1 




Do not be agitated by evildoers; do not envy those who do wrong. 









###### 2 




For they wither quickly like grass and wilt like tender green plants. 









###### 3 




Trust in the Lord and do what is good; dwell in the land and live securely.[^a] 









###### 4 




Take delight in the Lord, and he will give you your heart's desires. 









###### 5 




Commit your way to the Lord; trust in him, and he will act, 









###### 6 




making your righteousness shine like the dawn, your justice like the noonday. 









###### 7 




Be silent before the Lord and wait expectantly for him; do not be agitated by one who prospers in his way, by the person who carries out evil plans. 









###### 8 




Refrain from anger and give up your rage; do not be agitated--it can only bring harm. 









###### 9 




For evildoers will be destroyed, but those who put their hope in the Lord will inherit the land. 









###### 10 




A little while, and the wicked person will be no more; though you look for him, he will not be there. 









###### 11 




But the humble will inherit the land and will enjoy abundant prosperity. 









###### 12 




The wicked person schemes against the righteous and gnashes his teeth at him. 









###### 13 




The Lord laughs at him because he sees that his day is coming. 









###### 14 




The wicked have drawn the sword and strung the[^b] bow to bring down the poor and needy and to slaughter those whose way is upright. 









###### 15 




Their swords will enter their own hearts, and their bows will be broken. 









###### 16 




The little that the righteous person has is better than the abundance of many wicked people. 









###### 17 




For the arms of the wicked will be broken, but the Lord supports the righteous. 









###### 18 




The Lord watches over the blameless all their days, and their inheritance will last forever. 









###### 19 




They will not be disgraced in times of adversity; they will be satisfied in days of hunger. 









###### 20 




But the wicked will perish; the Lord's enemies, like the glory of the pastures, will fade away-- they will fade away like smoke. 









###### 21 




The wicked person borrows and does not repay, but the righteous one is gracious and giving. 









###### 22 




Those who are blessed by the Lord will inherit the land, but those cursed by him will be destroyed. 









###### 23 




A person's steps are established by the Lord, and he takes pleasure in his way. 









###### 24 




Though he falls, he will not be overwhelmed, because the Lord supports him with his hand. 









###### 25 




I have been young and now I am old, yet I have not seen the righteous abandoned or his children begging for bread. 









###### 26 




He is always generous, always lending, and his children are a blessing. 









###### 27 




Turn away from evil, do what is good, and settle permanently. 









###### 28 




For the Lord loves justice and will not abandon his faithful ones. They are kept safe forever, but the children of the wicked will be destroyed. 









###### 29 




The righteous will inherit the land and dwell in it permanently. 









###### 30 




The mouth of the righteous utters wisdom; his tongue speaks what is just. 









###### 31 




The instruction of his God is in his heart; his steps do not falter. 









###### 32 




The wicked one lies in wait for the righteous and intends to kill him; 









###### 33 




the Lord will not leave him in the power of the wicked one or allow him to be condemned when he is judged. 









###### 34 




Wait for the Lord and keep his way, and he will exalt you to inherit the land. You will watch when the wicked are destroyed. 









###### 35 




I have seen a wicked, violent person well-rooted,[^c] like a flourishing native tree. 









###### 36 




Then I[^d] passed by and noticed he was gone; I searched for him, but he could not be found. 









###### 37 




Watch the blameless and observe the upright, for the person of peace will have a future.[^e] 









###### 38 




But transgressors will all be eliminated; the future of the wicked will be destroyed. 









###### 39 




The salvation of the righteous is from the Lord, their refuge in a time of distress. 









###### 40 




The Lord helps and delivers them; he will deliver them from the wicked and will save them because they take refuge in him. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 37:3 Or <em>and cultivate faithfulness</em>, or <em>and befriend faithfulness</em> [^b]: 37:14 Lit <em>their</em> [^c]: 37:35 Hb obscure [^d]: 37:36 LXX, Syr, Vg, Jer; MT reads <em>he</em> [^e]: 37:37 Or <em>posterity</em>, also in v. 38
