---
Aliases: [Psalms 39]
previous: ['Ps 38']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 40']
---
# Psalms 39

***










###### 1 




I said, "I will guard my ways so that I may not sin with my tongue; I will guard my mouth with a muzzle as long as the wicked are in my presence." 









###### 2 




I was speechless and quiet; I kept silent, even from speaking good, and my pain intensified. 









###### 3 




My heart grew hot within me; as I mused, a fire burned. I spoke with my tongue: 









###### 4 




"Lord, make me aware of my end and the number of my days so that I will know how short-lived I am. 









###### 5 




In fact, you have made my days just inches long, and my life span is as nothing to you. Yes, every human being stands as only a vapor.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 6 




Yes, a person goes about like a mere shadow. Indeed, they rush around in vain, gathering possessions without knowing who will get them. 









###### 7 




"Now, Lord, what do I wait for? My hope is in you. 









###### 8 




Rescue me from all my transgressions; do not make me the taunt of fools. 









###### 9 




I am speechless; I do not open my mouth because of what you have done. 









###### 10 




Remove your torment from me. Because of the force of your hand I am finished. 









###### 11 




You discipline a person with punishment for iniquity, consuming like a moth what is precious to him; yes, every human being is only a vapor.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 12 




"Hear my prayer, Lord, and listen to my cry for help; do not be silent at my tears. For I am here with you as an alien, a temporary resident like all my ancestors. 









###### 13 




Turn your angry gaze from me so that I may be cheered up before I die and am gone." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
