---
Aliases: [Psalms 35]
previous: ['Ps 34']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 36']
---
# Psalms 35

***










###### 1 




Oppose my opponents, Lord; fight those who fight me. 









###### 2 




Take your shields--large and small-- and come to my aid. 









###### 3 




Draw the spear and javelin against my pursuers, and assure me, "I am your deliverance." 









###### 4 




Let those who intend to take my life be disgraced and humiliated; let those who plan to harm me be turned back and ashamed. 









###### 5 




Let them be like chaff in the wind, with the angel of the Lord driving them away. 









###### 6 




Let their way be dark and slippery, with the angel of the Lord pursuing them. 









###### 7 




They hid their net for me without cause; they dug a pit for me without cause. 









###### 8 




Let ruin come on him unexpectedly, and let the net that he hid ensnare him; let him fall into it--to his ruin. 









###### 9 




Then I will rejoice in the Lord; I will delight in his deliverance. 









###### 10 




All my bones will say, "Lord, who is like you, rescuing the poor from one too strong for him, the poor or the needy from one who robs him?" 









###### 11 




Malicious witnesses come forward; they question me about things I do not know. 









###### 12 




They repay me evil for good, making me desolate. 









###### 13 




Yet when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth; I humbled myself with fasting, and my prayer was genuine.[^a] 









###### 14 




I went about mourning as if for my friend or brother; I was bowed down with grief, like one mourning for a mother. 









###### 15 




But when I stumbled, they gathered in glee; they gathered against me. Assailants I did not know tore at me and did not stop. 









###### 16 




With godless mockery[^b] they gnashed their teeth at me. 









###### 17 




Lord, how long will you look on? Rescue me from their ravages; rescue my precious life from the young lions. 









###### 18 




I will praise you in the great assembly; I will exalt you among many people. 









###### 19 




Do not let my deceitful enemies rejoice over me; do not let those who hate me without cause wink at me maliciously. 









###### 20 




For they do not speak in friendly ways, but contrive fraudulent schemes[^c] against those who live peacefully in the land. 









###### 21 




They open their mouths wide against me and say, "Aha, aha! We saw it!" [^d] 









###### 22 




You saw it, Lord; do not be silent. Lord, do not be far from me. 









###### 23 




Wake up and rise to my defense, to my cause, my God and my Lord! 









###### 24 




Vindicate me, Lord my God, in keeping with your righteousness, and do not let them rejoice over me. 









###### 25 




Do not let them say in their hearts, "Aha! Just what we wanted." Do not let them say, "We have swallowed him up!" 









###### 26 




Let those who rejoice at my misfortune be disgraced and humiliated; let those who exalt themselves over me be clothed with shame and reproach. 









###### 27 




Let those who want my vindication shout for joy and be glad; let them continually say, "The Lord be exalted. He takes pleasure in his servant's well-being." 









###### 28 




And my tongue will proclaim your righteousness, your praise all day long. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 35:13 Lit <em>prayer returned to my chest</em> [^b]: 35:16 Hb obscure [^c]: 35:20 Lit <em>but devise fraudulent words</em> [^d]: 35:21 Lit <em>Our eyes saw!</em>
