---
Aliases: [Psalms 34]
previous: ['Ps 33']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 35']
---
# Psalms 34

***










###### 1 




I will bless the Lord at all times; his praise will always be on my lips. 









###### 2 




I will boast in the Lord; the humble will hear and be glad. 









###### 3 




Proclaim the Lord's greatness with me; let us exalt his name together. 









###### 4 




I sought the Lord, and he answered me and rescued me from all my fears. 









###### 5 




Those who look to him are[^a] radiant with joy; their faces will never be ashamed. 









###### 6 




This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him and saved him from all his troubles. 









###### 7 




The angel of the Lord encamps around those who fear him, and rescues them. 









###### 8 




Taste and see that the Lord is good. How happy is the person who takes refuge in him! 









###### 9 




You who are his holy ones, fear the Lord, for those who fear him lack nothing. 









###### 10 




Young lions[^b] lack food and go hungry, but those who seek the Lord will not lack any good thing. 









###### 11 




Come, children, listen to me; I will teach you the fear of the Lord. 









###### 12 




Who is someone who desires life, loving a long life to enjoy what is good? 









###### 13 




Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from deceitful speech. 









###### 14 




Turn away from evil and do what is good; seek peace and pursue it. 









###### 15 




The eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their cry for help. 









###### 16 




The face of the Lord is set against those who do what is evil, to remove[^c] all memory of them from the earth. 









###### 17 




The righteous[^d] cry out, and the Lord hears, and rescues them from all their troubles. 









###### 18 




The Lord is near the brokenhearted; he saves those crushed in spirit. 









###### 19 




One who is righteous has many adversities, but the Lord rescues him from them all. 









###### 20 




He protects all his bones; not one of them is broken. 









###### 21 




Evil brings death to the wicked, and those who hate the righteous will be punished. 









###### 22 




The Lord redeems the life of his servants, and all who take refuge in him will not be punished. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 34:5 Some Hb mss, LXX, Aq, Syr, Jer read <em>Look to him and be</em> [^b]: 34:10 LXX, Syr, Vg read <em>The rich</em> [^c]: 34:16 Or <em>cut off</em> [^d]: 34:17 Lit <em>They</em>
