---
Aliases: [Psalms 31]
previous: ['Ps 30']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 32']
---
# Psalms 31

***










###### 1 




Lord, I seek refuge in you; let me never be disgraced. Save me by your righteousness. 









###### 2 




Listen closely to me; rescue me quickly. Be a rock of refuge for me, a mountain fortress to save me. 









###### 3 




For you are my rock and my fortress; you lead and guide me for your name's sake. 









###### 4 




You will free me from the net that is secretly set for me, for you are my refuge. 









###### 5 




Into your hand I entrust my spirit; you have redeemed me,[^a] Lord, God of truth. 









###### 6 




I[^b] hate those who are devoted to worthless idols, but I trust in the Lord. 









###### 7 




I will rejoice and be glad in your faithful love because you have seen my affliction. You know the troubles of my soul 









###### 8 




and have not handed me over to the enemy. You have set my feet in a spacious place. 









###### 9 




Be gracious to me, Lord, because I am in distress; my eyes are worn out from frustration-- my whole being[^c] as well. 









###### 10 




Indeed, my life is consumed with grief and my years with groaning; my strength has failed because of my iniquity,[^d] and my bones waste away. 









###### 11 




I am ridiculed by all my adversaries and even by my neighbors. I am dreaded by my acquaintances; those who see me in the street run from me. 









###### 12 




I am forgotten: gone from memory like a dead person--like broken pottery. 









###### 13 




I have heard the gossip of many; terror is on every side. When they conspired against me, they plotted to take my life. 









###### 14 




But I trust in you, Lord; I say, "You are my God." 









###### 15 




The course of my life is in your power; rescue me from the power of my enemies and from my persecutors. 









###### 16 




Make your face shine on your servant; save me by your faithful love. 









###### 17 




Lord, do not let me be disgraced when I call on you. Let the wicked be disgraced; let them be quiet[^e][^f] in Sheol. 









###### 18 




Let lying lips that arrogantly speak against the righteous in proud contempt be silenced. 









###### 19 




How great is your goodness, which you have stored up for those who fear you. In the presence of everyone[^g] you have acted for those who take refuge in you. 









###### 20 




You hide them in the protection of your presence; you conceal them in a shelter from human schemes, from quarrelsome tongues. 









###### 21 




Blessed be the Lord, for he has wondrously shown his faithful love to me in a city under siege. 









###### 22 




In my alarm I said, "I am cut off from your sight." But you heard the sound of my pleading when I cried to you for help. 









###### 23 




Love the Lord, all his faithful ones. The Lord protects the loyal, but fully repays the arrogant. 









###### 24 




Be strong, and let your heart be courageous, all you who put your hope in the Lord. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 31:5 Or <em>spirit. Redeem me</em> [^b]: 31:6 One Hb ms, LXX, Syr, Vg, Jer read <em>You</em> [^c]: 31:9 Lit <em>my soul and my belly</em> [^d]: 31:10 LXX, Syr, Sym read <em>affliction</em> [^e]: 31:17 LXX reads <em>brought down</em> [^f]: 31:17 Or <em>them wail</em> [^g]: 31:19 Or <em>of the descendants of Adam</em>
