---
Aliases: [Psalms 38]
previous: ['Ps 37']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 39']
---
# Psalms 38

***










###### 1 




Lord, do not punish me in your anger or discipline me in your wrath. 









###### 2 




For your arrows have sunk into me, and your hand has pressed down on me. 









###### 3 




There is no soundness in my body because of your indignation; there is no health[^a] in my bones because of my sin. 









###### 4 




For my iniquities have flooded over my head; they are a burden too heavy for me to bear. 









###### 5 




My wounds are foul and festering because of my foolishness. 









###### 6 




I am bent over and brought very low; all day long I go around in mourning. 









###### 7 




For my insides are full of burning pain, and there is no soundness in my body. 









###### 8 




I am faint and severely crushed; I groan because of the anguish of my heart. 









###### 9 




Lord, my every desire is in front of you; my sighing is not hidden from you. 









###### 10 




My heart races, my strength leaves me, and even the light of my eyes has faded.[^b] 









###### 11 




My loved ones and friends stand back from my affliction, and my relatives stand at a distance. 









###### 12 




Those who intend to kill me set traps, and those who want to harm me threaten to destroy me; they plot treachery all day long. 









###### 13 




I am like a deaf person; I do not hear. I am like a speechless person who does not open his mouth. 









###### 14 




I am like a man who does not hear and has no arguments in his mouth. 









###### 15 




For I put my hope in you, Lord; you will answer me, my Lord, my God. 









###### 16 




For I said, "Don't let them rejoice over me-- those who are arrogant toward me when I stumble." 









###### 17 




For I am about to fall, and my pain is constantly with me. 









###### 18 




So I confess my iniquity; I am anxious because of my sin. 









###### 19 




But my enemies are vigorous and powerful;[^c] many hate me for no reason. 









###### 20 




Those who repay evil for good attack me for pursuing good. 









###### 21 




Lord, do not abandon me; my God, do not be far from me. 









###### 22 




Hurry to help me, my Lord, my salvation. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 38:3 Hb <i class="transliteration">shalom_ [^b]: 38:10 Or <em>and the light of my eyes—even that is not with me</em> [^c]: 38:19 Or <em>numerous</em>
