---
Aliases: [Psalms 30]
previous: ['Ps 29']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 31']
---
# Psalms 30

***










###### 1 




I will exalt you, Lord, because you have lifted me up and have not allowed my enemies to triumph over me. 









###### 2 




Lord my God, I cried to you for help, and you healed me. 









###### 3 




Lord, you brought me up from Sheol; you spared me from among those going down[^a] to the Pit. 









###### 4 




Sing to the Lord, you his faithful ones, and praise his holy name. 









###### 5 




For his anger lasts only a moment, but his favor, a lifetime. Weeping may stay overnight, but there is joy in the morning. 









###### 6 




When I was secure, I said, "I will never be shaken." 









###### 7 




Lord, when you showed your favor, you made me stand like a strong mountain; when you hid your face, I was terrified. 









###### 8 




Lord, I called to you; I sought favor from my Lord: 









###### 9 




"What gain is there in my death, if I go down to the Pit? Will the dust praise you? Will it proclaim your truth? 









###### 10 




Lord, listen and be gracious to me; Lord, be my helper." 









###### 11 




You turned my lament into dancing; you removed my sackcloth and clothed me with gladness, 









###### 12 




so that I can sing to you and not be silent. Lord my God, I will praise you forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 30:3 Some Hb mss, LXX, Theod, Orig, Syr; other Hb mss, Aq, Sym, Tg, Jer read <em>from going down</em>
