---
Aliases: [Psalms 49]
previous: ['Ps 48']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 50']
---
# Psalms 49

***










###### 1 




Hear this, all you peoples; listen, all who inhabit the world, 









###### 2 




both low and high, rich and poor together. 









###### 3 




My mouth speaks wisdom; my heart's meditation brings understanding. 









###### 4 




I turn my ear to a proverb; I explain my riddle with a lyre. 









###### 5 




Why should I fear in times of trouble? The iniquity of my foes surrounds me. 









###### 6 




They trust in their wealth and boast of their abundant riches. 









###### 7 




Yet these cannot redeem a person[^a] or pay his ransom to God-- 









###### 8 




since the price of redeeming him is too costly, one should forever stop trying[^b]-- 









###### 9 




so that he may live forever and not see the Pit. 









###### 10 




For one can see that the wise die; the foolish and stupid also pass away. Then they leave their wealth to others. 









###### 11 




Their graves are their permanent homes,[^c] their dwellings from generation to generation, though they have named estates after themselves. 









###### 12 




But despite his assets,[^d] mankind will not last; he is like the animals that perish. 









###### 13 




This is the way of those who are arrogant, and of their followers, who approve of their words.[^e]<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 14 




Like sheep they are headed for Sheol; Death will shepherd them. The upright will rule over them in the morning, and their form will waste away in Sheol,[^f] far from their lofty abode. 









###### 15 




But God will redeem me from the power of Sheol, for he will take me.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 16 




Do not be afraid when a person gets rich, when the wealth[^g] of his house increases. 









###### 17 




For when he dies, he will take nothing at all; his wealth will not follow him down. 









###### 18 




Though he blesses himself during his lifetime-- and you are acclaimed when you do well for yourself-- 









###### 19 




he will go to the generation of his ancestors; they will never see the light. 









###### 20 




Mankind, with his assets but without understanding, is like the animals that perish. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 49:7 Or <em>Certainly he cannot redeem himself</em>, or <em>Yet he cannot redeem a brother</em> [^b]: 49:8 Or <em>costly, it will cease forever</em> [^c]: 49:11 LXX, Syr, Tg; MT reads <em>Their inner thought is that their houses are eternal</em> [^d]: 49:12 Or <em>honor</em> [^e]: 49:13 Lit <em>and after them with their mouth they were pleased</em> [^f]: 49:14 Hb obscure [^g]: 49:16 Or <em>glory</em>, also in v. 17
