---
Aliases: [Psalms 42]
previous: ['Ps 41']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 43']
---
# Psalms 42

***










###### 1 




As a deer longs for flowing streams, so I long for you, God. 









###### 2 




I thirst for God, the living God. When can I come and appear before God? 









###### 3 




My tears have been my food day and night, while all day long people say to me, "Where is your God?" 









###### 4 




I remember this as I pour out my heart: how I walked with many, leading the festive procession to the house of God, with joyful and thankful shouts. 









###### 5 




Why, my soul, are you so dejected? Why are you in such turmoil? Put your hope in God, for I will still praise him, my Savior and my God. 









###### 6 




I[^a] am deeply depressed; therefore I remember you from the land of Jordan and the peaks of Hermon, from Mount Mizar. 









###### 7 




Deep calls to deep in the roar of your waterfalls; all your breakers and your billows have swept over me. 









###### 8 




The Lord will send his faithful love by day; his song will be with me in the night-- a prayer to the God of my life. 









###### 9 




I will say to God, my rock, "Why have you forgotten me? Why must I go about in sorrow because of the enemy's oppression?" 









###### 10 




My adversaries taunt me, as if crushing my bones, while all day long they say to me, "Where is your God?" 









###### 11 




Why, my soul, are you so dejected? Why are you in such turmoil? Put your hope in God, for I will still praise him, my Savior and my God. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 42:5–6 Some Hb mss, LXX, Syr; other Hb mss read <em>him, the salvation of his presence.</em> <sup class="versenum">6 </sup><em>My God, I</em>
