---
Aliases: [Psalms 48]
previous: ['Ps 47']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 49']
---
# Psalms 48

***










###### 1 




The Lord is great and highly praised in the city of our God. His holy mountain, <sup class="versenum mid-line">2</sup>rising splendidly, is the joy of the whole earth. Mount Zion--the summit of Zaphon-- is the city of the great King. 









###### 3 




God is known as a stronghold in its citadels. 









###### 4 




Look! The kings assembled; they advanced together. 









###### 5 




They looked and froze with fear; they fled in terror. 









###### 6 




Trembling seized them there, agony like that of a woman in labor, 









###### 7 




as you wrecked the ships of Tarshish with the east wind. 









###### 8 




Just as we heard, so we have seen in the city of the Lord of Armies, in the city of our God; God will establish it forever.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 9 




God, within your temple, we contemplate your faithful love. 









###### 10 




Like your name, God, so your praise reaches to the ends of the earth; your right hand is filled with justice. 









###### 11 




Mount Zion is glad. Judah's villages[^a] rejoice because of your judgments. 









###### 12 




Go around Zion, encircle it; count its towers, 









###### 13 




note its ramparts; tour its citadels so that you can tell a future generation: 









###### 14 




"This God, our God forever and ever-- he will always lead us."[^b] ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 48:11 Lit <em>daughters</em> [^b]: 48:14 Some Hb mss, LXX; other Hb mss read <em>over death</em>
