---
Aliases: [Psalms 45]
previous: ['Ps 44']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 46']
---
# Psalms 45

***










###### 1 




My heart is moved by a noble theme as I recite my verses to the king; my tongue is the pen of a skillful writer. 









###### 2 




You are the most handsome of men;[^a] grace flows from your lips. Therefore God has blessed you forever. 









###### 3 




Mighty warrior, strap your sword at your side. In your majesty and splendor-- 









###### 4 




in your splendor ride triumphantly in the cause of truth, humility, and justice. May your right hand show your awe-inspiring acts. 









###### 5 




Your sharpened arrows pierce the hearts of the king's enemies; the peoples fall under you. 









###### 6 




Your throne, God, is[^b] forever and ever; the scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of justice. 









###### 7 




You love righteousness and hate wickedness; therefore God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of joy more than your companions. 









###### 8 




Myrrh, aloes, and cassia perfume all your garments; from ivory palaces harps bring you joy. 









###### 9 




Kings' daughters are among your honored women; the queen, adorned with gold from Ophir, stands at your right hand. 









###### 10 




Listen, daughter, pay attention and consider: Forget your people and your father's house, 









###### 11 




and the king will desire your beauty. Bow down to him, for he is your lord. 









###### 12 




The daughter of Tyre, the wealthy people, will seek your favor with gifts. 









###### 13 




In her chamber, the royal daughter is all glorious, her clothing embroidered with gold. 









###### 14 




In colorful garments she is led to the king; after her, the virgins, her companions, are brought to you. 









###### 15 




They are led in with gladness and rejoicing; they enter the king's palace. 









###### 16 




Your sons will succeed your ancestors; you will make them princes throughout the land. 









###### 17 




I will cause your name to be remembered for all generations; therefore the peoples will praise you forever and ever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 45:2 Or <em>of the descendants of Adam</em> [^b]: 45:6 Or <em>Your divine throne is</em>, or <em>Your throne is God’s</em>
