---
Aliases: [Psalms 41]
previous: ['Ps 40']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 42']
---
# Psalms 41

***










###### 1 




Happy is one who is considerate of the poor; the Lord will save him in a day of adversity. 









###### 2 




The Lord will keep him and preserve him; he will be blessed in the land. You will not give him over to the desire of his enemies. 









###### 3 




The Lord will sustain him on his sickbed; you will heal him on the bed where he lies. 









###### 4 




I said, "Lord, be gracious to me; heal me, for I have sinned against you." 









###### 5 




My enemies speak maliciously about me: "When will he die and be forgotten?" 









###### 6 




When one of them comes to visit, he speaks deceitfully; he stores up evil in his heart; he goes out and talks. 









###### 7 




All who hate me whisper together about me; they plan to harm me. 









###### 8 




"Something awful has overwhelmed him,[^a] and he won't rise again from where he lies!" 









###### 9 




Even my friend[^b] in whom I trusted, one who ate my bread, has raised his heel against me. 









###### 10 




But you, Lord, be gracious to me and raise me up; then I will repay them. 









###### 11 




By this I know that you delight in me: my enemy does not shout in triumph over me. 









###### 12 




You supported me because of my integrity and set me in your presence forever. 









###### 13 




Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting. Amen and amen. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 41:8 Lit <em>“A thing of worthlessness has been poured into him</em> [^b]: 41:9 Lit <em>Even a man of my peace</em>
