---
Aliases: [Psalms 40]
previous: ['Ps 39']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 41']
---
# Psalms 40

***










###### 1 




I waited patiently for the Lord, and he turned to me and heard my cry for help. 









###### 2 




He brought me up from a desolate[^a] pit, out of the muddy clay, and set my feet on a rock, making my steps secure. 









###### 3 




He put a new song in my mouth, a hymn of praise to our God. Many will see and fear, and they will trust in the Lord. 









###### 4 




How happy is anyone who has put his trust in the Lord and has not turned to the proud or to those who run after lies! 









###### 5 




Lord my God, you have done many things-- your wondrous works and your plans for us; none can compare with you. If I were to report and speak of them, they are more than can be told. 









###### 6 




You do not delight in sacrifice and offering; you open my ears to listen.[^b] You do not ask for a whole burnt offering or a sin offering. 









###### 7 




Then I said, "See, I have come; in the scroll it is written about me. 









###### 8 




I delight to do your will, my God, and your instruction is deep within me." 









###### 9 




I proclaim righteousness in the great assembly; see, I do not keep my mouth closed[^c]-- as you know, Lord. 









###### 10 




I did not hide your righteousness in my heart; I spoke about your faithfulness and salvation; I did not conceal your constant love and truth from the great assembly. 









###### 11 




Lord, you do not[^d] withhold your compassion from me. Your constant love and truth will always guard me. 









###### 12 




For troubles without number have surrounded me; my iniquities have overtaken me; I am unable to see. They are more than the hairs of my head, and my courage leaves me. 









###### 13 




Lord, be pleased to rescue me; hurry to help me, Lord. 









###### 14 




Let those who intend to take my life be disgraced and confounded. Let those who wish me harm be turned back and humiliated. 









###### 15 




Let those who say to me, "Aha, aha!" be appalled because of their shame. 









###### 16 




Let all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you; let those who love your salvation continually say, "The Lord is great!" 









###### 17 




I am oppressed and needy; may the Lord think of me. You are my helper and my deliverer; my God, do not delay. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 40:2 Or <em>watery</em> [^b]: 40:6 Lit <em>you hollow out ears for me</em> [^c]: 40:9 Lit <em>not restrain my lips</em> [^d]: 40:11 Or Lord, do not
