---
Aliases: [Psalms 46]
previous: ['Ps 45']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 47']
---
# Psalms 46

***










###### 1 




God is our refuge and strength, a helper who is always found in times of trouble. 









###### 2 




Therefore we will not be afraid, though the earth trembles and the mountains topple into the depths of the seas, 









###### 3 




though its water roars and foams and the mountains quake with its turmoil.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 4 




There is a river-- its streams delight the city of God, the holy dwelling place of the Most High. 









###### 5 




God is within her; she will not be toppled. God will help her when the morning dawns. 









###### 6 




Nations rage, kingdoms topple; the earth melts when he lifts his voice. 









###### 7 




The Lord of Armies is with us; the God of Jacob is our stronghold.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 8 




Come, see the works of the Lord, who brings devastation on the earth. 









###### 9 




He makes wars cease throughout the earth. He shatters bows and cuts spears to pieces; he sets wagons ablaze. 









###### 10 




"Stop fighting, and know that I am God, exalted among the nations, exalted on the earth." 









###### 11 




The Lord of Armies is with us; the God of Jacob is our stronghold.<i class="selah">Selah_ ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
