---
Aliases: [Psalms 56]
previous: ['Ps 55']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 57']
---
# Psalms 56

***










###### 1 




Be gracious to me, God, for a man is trampling me; he fights and oppresses me all day long. 









###### 2 




My adversaries trample me all day, for many arrogantly fight against me.[^a] 









###### 3 




When I am afraid, I will trust in you. 









###### 4 




In God, whose word I praise, in God I trust; I will not be afraid. What can mere mortals do to me? 









###### 5 




They twist my words all day long; all their thoughts against me are evil. 









###### 6 




They stir up strife,[^b] they lurk, they watch my steps while they wait to take my life. 









###### 7 




Will they escape in spite of such sin? God, bring down the nations in wrath. 









###### 8 




You yourself have recorded my wanderings.[^c] Put my tears in your bottle. Are they not in your book? 









###### 9 




Then my enemies will retreat on the day when I call. This I know: God is for me. 









###### 10 




In God, whose word I praise, in the Lord, whose word I praise, 









###### 11 




in God I trust; I will not be afraid. What can mere humans do to me? 









###### 12 




I am obligated by vows[^d] to you, God; I will make my thanksgiving sacrifices to you. 









###### 13 




For you rescued me from death, even my feet from stumbling, to walk before God in the light of life. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 56:2 Or <em>many fight against me, O exalted one</em>, or <em>many fight against me from the heights</em> [^b]: 56:6 Or <em>They attack</em> [^c]: 56:8 Or <em>misery</em> [^d]: 56:12 Lit <em>On me the vows</em>
