---
Aliases: [Psalms 52]
previous: ['Ps 51']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 53']
---
# Psalms 52

***










###### 1 




Why boast about evil, you hero! God's faithful love is constant. 









###### 2 




Like a sharpened razor, your tongue devises destruction, working treachery. 









###### 3 




You love evil instead of good, lying instead of speaking truthfully.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 4 




You love any words that destroy, you treacherous tongue! 









###### 5 




This is why God will bring you down forever. He will take you, ripping you out of your tent; he will uproot you from the land of the living.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 6 




The righteous will see and fear, and they will derisively say about that hero,[^a] 









###### 7 




"Here is the man who would not make God his refuge, but trusted in the abundance of his riches, taking refuge in his destructive behavior." 









###### 8 




But I am like a flourishing olive tree in the house of God; I trust in God's faithful love forever and ever. 









###### 9 




I will praise you forever for what you have done. In the presence of your faithful people, I will put my hope in your name, for it is good. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 52:6 Lit <em>about him</em>
