---
Aliases: [Psalms 57]
previous: ['Ps 56']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 58']
---
# Psalms 57

***










###### 1 




Be gracious to me, God, be gracious to me, for I take refuge in you. I will seek refuge in the shadow of your wings until danger passes. 









###### 2 




I call to God Most High, to God who fulfills his purpose for me.[^a] 









###### 3 




He reaches down from heaven and saves me, challenging the one who tramples me.<i class="selah">Selah_ God sends his faithful love and truth. 









###### 4 




I am surrounded by lions; I lie down among devouring lions-- people whose teeth are spears and arrows, whose tongues are sharp swords. 









###### 5 




God, be exalted above the heavens; let your glory be over the whole earth. 









###### 6 




They prepared a net for my steps; I was despondent. They dug a pit ahead of me, but they fell into it!<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 7 




My heart is confident, God, my heart is confident. I will sing; I will sing praises. 









###### 8 




Wake up, my soul! Wake up, harp and lyre! I will wake up the dawn. 









###### 9 




I will praise you, Lord, among the peoples; I will sing praises to you among the nations. 









###### 10 




For your faithful love is as high as the heavens; your faithfulness reaches the clouds. 









###### 11 




God, be exalted above the heavens; let your glory be over the whole earth. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 57:2 Or <em>who avenges me</em>
