---
Aliases: [Psalms 59]
previous: ['Ps 58']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 60']
---
# Psalms 59

***










###### 1 




Rescue me from my enemies, my God; protect me from those who rise up against me. 









###### 2 




Rescue me from evildoers, and save me from men of bloodshed. 









###### 3 




Because look, Lord, they set an ambush for me. Powerful men attack me, but not because of any sin or rebellion of mine. 









###### 4 




For no fault of mine, they run and take up a position. Awake to help me, and take notice. 









###### 5 




Lord God of Armies, you are the God of Israel. Rise up to punish all the nations; do not show favor to any wicked traitors.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 6 




They return at evening, snarling like dogs and prowling around the city. 









###### 7 




Look, they spew from their mouths-- sharp words from[^a] their lips. "For who," they say, "will hear?" 









###### 8 




But you laugh at them, Lord; you ridicule all the nations. 









###### 9 




I will keep watch for you, my[^b] strength, because God is my stronghold. 









###### 10 




My faithful God[^c] will come to meet me; God will let me look down on my adversaries. 









###### 11 




Do not kill them; otherwise, my people will forget. By your power, make them homeless wanderers and bring them down, Lord, our shield. 









###### 12 




For the sin of their mouths and the words of their lips, let them be caught in their pride. They utter curses and lies. 









###### 13 




Consume them in fury; consume them until they are gone. Then people will know throughout[^d] the earth that God rules over Jacob.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 14 




And they return at evening, snarling like dogs and prowling around the city. 









###### 15 




They scavenge for food; they growl if they are not satisfied. 









###### 16 




But I will sing of your strength and will joyfully proclaim your faithful love in the morning. For you have been a stronghold for me, a refuge in my day of trouble. 









###### 17 




To you, my strength, I sing praises, because God is my stronghold-- my faithful God. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 59:7 Lit <em>swords are on</em> [^b]: 59:9 Some Hb mss, LXX, Vg, Tg; other Hb mss read <em>his</em> [^c]: 59:10 Alt Hb tradition reads <em>My God in his faithful love</em> [^d]: 59:13 Lit <em>know to the ends of</em>
