---
Aliases: [Psalms 58]
previous: ['Ps 57']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 59']
---
# Psalms 58

***










###### 1 




Do you really speak righteously, you mighty ones?[^a] Do you judge people fairly? 









###### 2 




No, you practice injustice in your hearts; with your hands you weigh out violence in the land. 









###### 3 




The wicked go astray from the womb; liars wander about from birth. 









###### 4 




They have venom like the venom of a snake, like the deaf cobra that stops up its ears, 









###### 5 




that does not listen to the sound of the charmers who skillfully weave spells. 









###### 6 




God, knock the teeth out of their mouths; Lord, tear out the young lions' fangs. 









###### 7 




May they vanish like water that flows by; may they aim their blunted arrows.[^b] 









###### 8 




Like a slug that moves along in slime, like a woman's miscarried child, may they not see the sun. 









###### 9 




Before your pots can feel the heat of the thorns-- whether green or burning-- he will sweep them away.[^c] 









###### 10 




The righteous one will rejoice when he sees the retribution; he will wash his feet in the blood of the wicked. 









###### 11 




Then people will say, "Yes, there is a reward for the righteous! There is a God who judges on earth!" ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 58:1 Or <em>Can you really speak righteousness in silence?</em> [^b]: 58:7 Hb obscure [^c]: 58:9 Or <em>thorns, he will sweep it away, whether raw or cooking</em>
