---
Aliases: [Psalms 51]
previous: ['Ps 50']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 52']
---
# Psalms 51

***










###### 1 




Be gracious to me, God, according to your faithful love; according to your abundant compassion, blot out my rebellion. 









###### 2 




Completely wash away my guilt and cleanse me from my sin. 









###### 3 




For I am conscious of my rebellion, and my sin is always before me. 









###### 4 




Against you--you alone--I have sinned and done this evil in your sight. So you are right when you pass sentence; you are blameless when you judge. 









###### 5 




Indeed, I was guilty when I was born; I was sinful when my mother conceived me. 









###### 6 




Surely you desire integrity in the inner self, and you teach me wisdom deep within. 









###### 7 




Purify me with hyssop, and I will be clean; wash me, and I will be whiter than snow. 









###### 8 




Let me hear joy and gladness; let the bones you have crushed rejoice. 









###### 9 




Turn your face away[^a] from my sins and blot out all my guilt. 









###### 10 




God, create a clean heart for me and renew a steadfast[^b] spirit within me. 









###### 11 




Do not banish me from your presence or take your Holy Spirit from me. 









###### 12 




Restore the joy of your salvation to me, and sustain me by giving me a willing spirit. 









###### 13 




Then I will teach the rebellious your ways, and sinners will return to you. 









###### 14 




Save me from the guilt of bloodshed, God-- God of my salvation-- and my tongue will sing of your righteousness. 









###### 15 




Lord, open my lips, and my mouth will declare your praise. 









###### 16 




You do not want a sacrifice, or I would give it; you are not pleased with a burnt offering. 









###### 17 




The sacrifice pleasing to God is[^c] a broken spirit. You will not despise a broken and humbled heart, God. 









###### 18 




In your good pleasure, cause Zion to prosper; build the walls of Jerusalem. 









###### 19 




Then you will delight in righteous sacrifices, whole burnt offerings; then bulls will be offered on your altar. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 51:9 Lit <em>Hide your face</em> [^b]: 51:10 Or <em>right</em> [^c]: 51:17 Lit <em>The sacrifices of God are</em>
