---
Aliases: [Psalms 50]
previous: ['Ps 49']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 51']
---
# Psalms 50

***










###### 1 




The Mighty One, God,[^a] the Lord, speaks; he summons the earth from the rising of the sun to its setting. 









###### 2 




From Zion, the perfection of beauty, God appears in radiance.[^b] 









###### 3 




Our God is coming; he will not be silent! Devouring fire precedes him, and a storm rages around him. 









###### 4 




On high, he summons heaven and earth in order to judge his people: 









###### 5 




"Gather my faithful ones to me, those who made a covenant with me by sacrifice." 









###### 6 




The heavens proclaim his righteousness, for God is the Judge.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 7 




"Listen, my people, and I will speak; I will testify against you, Israel. I am God, your God. 









###### 8 




I do not rebuke you for your sacrifices or for your burnt offerings, which are continually before me. 









###### 9 




I will not take a bull from your household or male goats from your pens, 









###### 10 




for every animal of the forest is mine, the cattle on a thousand hills. 









###### 11 




I know every bird of the mountains, and the creatures of the field are mine. 









###### 12 




If I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world and everything in it is mine. 









###### 13 




Do I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats? 









###### 14 




Offer a thanksgiving sacrifice to God, and pay your vows to the Most High. 









###### 15 




Call on me in a day of trouble; I will rescue you, and you will honor me." 









###### 16 




But God says to the wicked: "What right do you have to recite my statutes and to take my covenant on your lips? 









###### 17 




You hate instruction and fling my words behind you. 









###### 18 




When you see a thief, you make friends with him, and you associate with adulterers. 









###### 19 




You unleash your mouth for evil and harness your tongue for deceit. 









###### 20 




You sit, maligning your brother, slandering your mother's son. 









###### 21 




You have done these things, and I kept silent; you thought I was just like you. But I will rebuke you and lay out the case before you.[^c] 









###### 22 




"Understand this, you who forget God, or I will tear you apart, and there will be no one to rescue you. 









###### 23 




Whoever offers a thanksgiving sacrifice honors me, and whoever orders his conduct, I will show him the salvation of God." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 50:1 Or <em>The God of gods</em> [^b]: 50:2 Or <em>God shines forth</em> [^c]: 50:21 Lit <em>lay it out before your eyes</em>
