---
Aliases: [Psalms 55]
previous: ['Ps 54']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 56']
---
# Psalms 55

***










###### 1 




God, listen to my prayer and do not hide from my plea for help. 









###### 2 




Pay attention to me and answer me. I am restless and in turmoil with my complaint, 









###### 3 




because of the enemy's words,[^a] because of the pressure[^b] of the wicked. For they bring down disaster on me and harass me in anger. 









###### 4 




My heart shudders within me; terrors of death sweep over me. 









###### 5 




Fear and trembling grip me; horror has overwhelmed me. 









###### 6 




I said, "If only I had wings like a dove! I would fly away and find rest. 









###### 7 




How far away I would flee; I would stay in the wilderness.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 8 




I would hurry to my shelter from the raging wind and the storm." 









###### 9 




Lord, confuse[^c] and confound their speech,[^d] for I see violence and strife in the city; 









###### 10 




day and night they make the rounds on its walls. Crime and trouble are within it; 









###### 11 




destruction is inside it; oppression and deceit never leave its marketplace. 









###### 12 




Now it is not an enemy who insults me-- otherwise I could bear it; it is not a foe who rises up against me-- otherwise I could hide from him. 









###### 13 




But it is you, a man who is my peer, my companion and good friend! 









###### 14 




We used to have close fellowship; we walked with the crowd into the house of God. 









###### 15 




Let death take them by surprise; let them go down to Sheol alive, because evil is in their homes and within them. 









###### 16 




But I call to God, and the Lord will save me. 









###### 17 




I complain and groan morning, noon, and night, and he hears my voice. 









###### 18 




Though many are against me, he will redeem me from my battle unharmed. 









###### 19 




God, the one enthroned from long ago, will hear and will humiliate them<i class="selah">Selah_ because they do not change and do not fear God. 









###### 20 




My friend acts violently against those at peace with him; he violates his covenant. 









###### 21 




His buttery words are smooth, but war is in his heart. His words are softer than oil, but they are drawn swords. 









###### 22 




Cast your burden on the Lord, and he will sustain you; he will never allow the righteous to be shaken. 









###### 23 




God, you will bring them down to the Pit of destruction; men of bloodshed and treachery will not live out half their days. But I will trust in you. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 55:3 Lit <em>voice</em> [^b]: 55:3 Or <em>threat</em>, or <em>oppression</em> [^c]: 55:9 Or <em>destroy</em> [^d]: 55:9 Lit <em>and divide their tongue</em>
