---
Aliases: [Psalms 66]
previous: ['Ps 65']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 67']
---
# Psalms 66

***










###### 1 




Let the whole earth shout joyfully to God! 









###### 2 




Sing about the glory of his name; make his praise glorious. 









###### 3 




Say to God, "How awe-inspiring are your works! Your enemies will cringe before you because of your great strength. 









###### 4 




The whole earth will worship you and sing praise to you. They will sing praise to your name."<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 5 




Come and see the wonders of God; his acts for humanity[^a] are awe-inspiring. 









###### 6 




He turned the sea into dry land, and they crossed the river on foot. There we rejoiced in him. 









###### 7 




He rules forever by his might; he keeps his eye on the nations. The rebellious should not exalt themselves.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 8 




Bless our God, you peoples; let the sound of his praise be heard. 









###### 9 




He keeps us alive[^b] and does not allow our feet to slip. 









###### 10 




For you, God, tested us; you refined us as silver is refined. 









###### 11 




You lured us into a trap; you placed burdens on our backs. 









###### 12 




You let men ride over our heads; we went through fire and water, but you brought us out to abundance.[^c] 









###### 13 




I will enter your house with burnt offerings; I will pay you my vows 









###### 14 




that my lips promised and my mouth spoke during my distress. 









###### 15 




I will offer you fattened sheep as burnt offerings, with the fragrant smoke of rams; I will sacrifice bulls with goats.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 16 




Come and listen, all who fear God, and I will tell what he has done for me. 









###### 17 




I cried out to him with my mouth, and praise was on my tongue. 









###### 18 




If I had been aware of malice in my heart, the Lord would not have listened. 









###### 19 




However, God has listened; he has paid attention to the sound of my prayer. 









###### 20 




Blessed be God! He has not turned away my prayer or turned his faithful love from me. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 66:5 Or <em>for the descendants of Adam</em> [^b]: 66:9 Lit <em>He sets our soul in life</em> [^c]: 66:12 Or <em>a place of satisfaction</em>
