---
Aliases: [Psalms 69]
previous: ['Ps 68']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 70']
---
# Psalms 69

***










###### 1 




Save me, God, for the water has risen to my neck. 









###### 2 




I have sunk in deep mud, and there is no footing; I have come into deep water, and a flood sweeps over me. 









###### 3 




I am weary from my crying; my throat is parched. My eyes fail, looking for my God. 









###### 4 




Those who hate me without cause are more numerous than the hairs of my head; my deceitful enemies, who would destroy me, are powerful. Though I did not steal, I must repay. 









###### 5 




God, you know my foolishness, and my guilty acts are not hidden from you. 









###### 6 




Do not let those who put their hope in you be disgraced because of me, Lord God of Armies; do not let those who seek you be humiliated because of me, God of Israel. 









###### 7 




For I have endured insults because of you, and shame has covered my face. 









###### 8 




I have become a stranger to my brothers and a foreigner to my mother's sons 









###### 9 




because zeal for your house has consumed me, and the insults of those who insult you have fallen on me. 









###### 10 




I mourned and fasted, but it brought me insults. 









###### 11 




I wore sackcloth as my clothing, and I was a joke to them. 









###### 12 




Those who sit at the city gate talk about me, and drunkards make up songs about me. 









###### 13 




But as for me, Lord, my prayer to you is for a time of favor. In your abundant, faithful love, God, answer me with your sure salvation. 









###### 14 




Rescue me from the miry mud; don't let me sink. Let me be rescued from those who hate me and from the deep water. 









###### 15 




Don't let the floodwaters sweep over me or the deep swallow me up; don't let the Pit close its mouth over me. 









###### 16 




Answer me, Lord, for your faithful love is good. In keeping with your abundant compassion, turn to me. 









###### 17 




Don't hide your face from your servant, for I am in distress. Answer me quickly! 









###### 18 




Come near to me and redeem me; ransom me because of my enemies. 









###### 19 




You know the insults I endure-- my shame and disgrace. You are aware of all my adversaries. 









###### 20 




Insults have broken my heart, and I am in despair. I waited for sympathy, but there was none; for comforters, but found no one. 









###### 21 




Instead, they gave me gall for my food, and for my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink. 









###### 22 




Let their table set before them be a snare, and let it be a trap for their allies. 









###### 23 




Let their eyes grow too dim to see, and let their hips continually quake. 









###### 24 




Pour out your rage on them, and let your burning anger overtake them. 









###### 25 




Make their fortification desolate; may no one live in their tents. 









###### 26 




For they persecute the one you struck and talk about the pain of those you wounded. 









###### 27 




Charge them with crime on top of crime; do not let them share in your righteousness. 









###### 28 




Let them be erased from the book of life and not be recorded with the righteous. 









###### 29 




But as for me--poor and in pain-- let your salvation protect me, God. 









###### 30 




I will praise God's name with song and exalt him with thanksgiving. 









###### 31 




That will please the Lord more than an ox, more than a bull with horns and hooves. 









###### 32 




The humble will see it and rejoice. You who seek God, take heart! 









###### 33 




For the Lord listens to the needy and does not despise his own who are prisoners. 









###### 34 




Let heaven and earth praise him, the seas and everything that moves in them, 









###### 35 




for God will save Zion and build up[^a] the cities of Judah. They will live there and possess it. 









###### 36 




The descendants of his servants will inherit it, and those who love his name will live in it. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 69:35 Or <em>and rebuild</em>
