---
Aliases: [Psalms 63]
previous: ['Ps 62']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 64']
---
# Psalms 63

***










###### 1 




God, you are my God; I eagerly seek you. I thirst for you; my body faints for you in a land that is dry, desolate, and without water. 









###### 2 




So I gaze on you in the sanctuary to see your strength and your glory. 









###### 3 




My lips will glorify you because your faithful love is better than life. 









###### 4 




So I will bless you as long as I live; at your name, I will lift up my hands. 









###### 5 




You satisfy me as with rich food;[^a] my mouth will praise you with joyful lips. 









###### 6 




When I think of you as I lie on my bed, I meditate on you during the night watches 









###### 7 




because you are my helper; I will rejoice in the shadow of your wings. 









###### 8 




I follow close to you; your right hand holds on to me. 









###### 9 




But those who intend to destroy my life will go into the depths of the earth. 









###### 10 




They will be given over to the power of the sword; they will become a meal for jackals. 









###### 11 




But the king will rejoice in God; all who swear by him will boast, for the mouths of liars will be shut. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 63:5 Lit <em>with fat and fatness</em>
