---
Aliases: [Psalms 64]
previous: ['Ps 63']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 65']
---
# Psalms 64

***










###### 1 




God, hear my voice when I am in anguish. Protect my life from the terror of the enemy. 









###### 2 




Hide me from the scheming of wicked people, from the mob of evildoers, 









###### 3 




who sharpen their tongues like swords and aim bitter words like arrows, 









###### 4 




shooting from concealed places at the blameless. They shoot at him suddenly and are not afraid. 









###### 5 




They adopt[^a] an evil plan; they talk about hiding traps and say, "Who will see them?" [^b] 









###### 6 




They devise crimes and say, "We have perfected a secret plan." The inner man and the heart are mysterious. 









###### 7 




But God will shoot them with arrows; suddenly, they will be wounded. 









###### 8 




They will be made to stumble; their own tongues work against them. All who see them will shake their heads. 









###### 9 




Then everyone will fear and will tell about God's work, for they will understand what he has done. 









###### 10 




The righteous one rejoices in the Lord and takes refuge in him; all those who are upright in heart will offer praise. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 64:5 Or <em>They strengthen themselves with</em> [^b]: 64:5 Or <em>it</em>
