---
Aliases: [Psalms 68]
previous: ['Ps 67']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 69']
---
# Psalms 68

***










###### 1 




God arises. His enemies scatter, and those who hate him flee from his presence. 









###### 2 




As smoke is blown away, so you blow them away. As wax melts before the fire, so the wicked are destroyed before God. 









###### 3 




But the righteous are glad; they rejoice before God and celebrate with joy. 









###### 4 




Sing to God! Sing praises to his name. Exalt him who rides on the clouds[^a]-- his name is the Lord[^b]--and celebrate before him. 









###### 5 




God in his holy dwelling is a father of the fatherless and a champion of widows. 









###### 6 




God provides homes for those who are deserted. He leads out the prisoners to prosperity,[^c] but the rebellious live in a scorched land. 









###### 7 




God, when you went out before your people, when you marched through the desert,<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 8 




the earth trembled and the skies poured rain before God, the God of Sinai,[^d] before God, the God of Israel. 









###### 9 




You, God, showered abundant rain; you revived your inheritance when it languished. 









###### 10 




Your people settled in it; God, you provided for the poor by your goodness. 









###### 11 




The Lord gave the command; a great company of women brought the good news: 









###### 12 




"The kings of the armies flee--they flee!" She who stays at home divides the spoil. 









###### 13 




While[^e] you lie among the sheep pens,[^f] the wings of a dove are covered with silver, and its feathers with glistening gold. 









###### 14 




When the Almighty scattered kings in the land, it snowed on Zalmon.[^g] 









###### 15 




Mount Bashan is God's towering mountain; Mount Bashan is a mountain of many peaks. 









###### 16 




Why gaze with envy, you mountain peaks, at the mountain God desired for his abode? The Lord will dwell there forever! 









###### 17 




God's chariots are tens of thousands, thousands and thousands; the Lord is among them in the sanctuary[^h] as he was at Sinai. 









###### 18 




You ascended to the heights, taking away captives; you received gifts from[^i] people, even from the rebellious, so that the Lord God might dwell there.[^j] 









###### 19 




Blessed be the Lord! Day after day he bears our burdens; God is our salvation.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 20 




Our God is a God of salvation, and escape from death belongs to the Lord my Lord. 









###### 21 




Surely God crushes the heads of his enemies, the hairy brow of one who goes on in his guilty acts. 









###### 22 




The Lord said, "I will bring them back from Bashan; I will bring them back from the depths of the sea 









###### 23 




so that your foot may wade[^k] in blood and your dogs' tongues may have their share from the enemies." 









###### 24 




People have seen your procession, God, the procession of my God, my King, in the sanctuary. 









###### 25 




Singers lead the way, with musicians following; among them are young women playing tambourines. 









###### 26 




Bless God in the assemblies; bless the Lord from the fountain of Israel. 









###### 27 




There is Benjamin, the youngest, leading them, the rulers of Judah in their assembly,[^l] the rulers of Zebulun, the rulers of Naphtali. 









###### 28 




Your God has decreed your strength. Show your strength, God, you who have acted on our behalf. 









###### 29 




Because of your temple at Jerusalem, kings will bring tribute to you. 









###### 30 




Rebuke the beast in the reeds, the herd of bulls with the calves of the peoples. Trample underfoot those with bars of silver.[^m] Scatter the peoples who take pleasure in war. 









###### 31 




Ambassadors will come[^n] from Egypt; Cush will stretch out its hands to God. 









###### 32 




Sing to God, you kingdoms of the earth; sing praise to the Lord,<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 33 




to him who rides in the ancient, highest heavens. Look, he thunders with his powerful voice! 









###### 34 




Ascribe power to God. His majesty is over Israel; his power is among the clouds. 









###### 35 




God, you are awe-inspiring in your sanctuaries. The God of Israel gives power and strength to his people. Blessed be God! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 68:4 Or <em>rides through the desert</em> [^b]: 68:4 Hb <em>Yah</em> [^c]: 68:6 Or <em>prisoners with joyous music</em>; Hb uncertain [^d]: 68:8 Or <em>God, this one of Sinai</em> [^e]: 68:13 Or <em>If</em> [^f]: 68:13 Or <em>the campfires</em>, or <em>the saddlebags</em>; Hb obscure [^g]: 68:14 Or <em>Black Mountain</em> [^h]: 68:17 Or <em>in holiness</em>, also in v. 24 [^i]: 68:18 Lit <em>among</em> [^j]: 68:18 Or even those rebelling against the Lord God’s living there; Hb obscure [^k]: 68:23 LXX, Syr read <em>dip</em> [^l]: 68:27 Hb obscure [^m]: 68:30 Or <em>peoples, trampling on those who take pleasure in silver</em>, or <em>peoples, trampling on the bars of silver</em>, or <em>peoples, who trample each other for bars of silver</em> [^n]: 68:31 Or <em>They bring red cloth</em>, or <em>They bring bronze</em>
