---
Aliases: [Psalms 60]
previous: ['Ps 59']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 61']
---
# Psalms 60

***










###### 1 




God, you have rejected us; you have broken us down; you have been angry. Restore us![^a] 









###### 2 




You have shaken the land and split it open. Heal its fissures, for it shudders. 









###### 3 




You have made your people suffer hardship; you have given us wine to drink that made us stagger. 









###### 4 




You have given a signal flag to those who fear you, so that they can flee before the archers.[^b]<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 5 




Save with your right hand, and answer me, so that those you love may be rescued. 









###### 6 




God has spoken in his sanctuary:[^c] "I will celebrate! I will divide up Shechem. I will apportion the Valley of Succoth. 









###### 7 




Gilead is mine, Manasseh is mine, and Ephraim is my helmet; Judah is my scepter. 









###### 8 




Moab is my washbasin. I throw my sandal on Edom; I shout in triumph over Philistia." 









###### 9 




Who will bring me to the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom? 









###### 10 




God, haven't you rejected us? God, you do not march out with our armies. 









###### 11 




Give us aid against the foe, for human help is worthless. 









###### 12 




With God we will perform valiantly; he will trample our foes. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 60:1 Or <em>Turn back to us</em> [^b]: 60:4 Or <em>can rally before the archers</em>, or <em>can rally because of the truth</em> [^c]: 60:6 Or <em>has promised by his holy nature</em>
