---
Aliases: [Psalms 74]
previous: ['Ps 73']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 75']
---
# Psalms 74

***










###### 1 




Why have you rejected us forever, God? Why does your anger burn against the sheep of your pasture? 









###### 2 




Remember your congregation, which you purchased long ago and redeemed as the tribe for your own possession. Remember Mount Zion where you dwell. 









###### 3 




Make your way[^a] to the perpetual ruins, to all that the enemy has destroyed in the sanctuary. 









###### 4 




Your adversaries roared in the meeting place where you met with us.[^b] They set up their emblems as signs. 









###### 5 




It was like men in a thicket of trees, wielding axes, 









###### 6 




then smashing all the carvings with hatchets and picks. 









###### 7 




They set your sanctuary on fire; they utterly[^c] desecrated the dwelling place of your name. 









###### 8 




They said in their hearts, "Let's oppress them relentlessly." They burned every place throughout the land where God met with us.[^d] 









###### 9 




There are no signs for us to see. There is no longer a prophet. And none of us knows how long this will last. 









###### 10 




God, how long will the enemy mock? Will the foe insult your name forever? 









###### 11 




Why do you hold back your hand? Stretch out[^e] your right hand and destroy them! 









###### 12 




God my King is from ancient times, performing saving acts on the earth. 









###### 13 




You divided the sea with your strength; you smashed the heads of the sea monsters in the water; 









###### 14 




you crushed the heads of Leviathan; you fed him to the creatures of the desert. 









###### 15 




You opened up springs and streams; you dried up ever-flowing rivers. 









###### 16 




The day is yours, also the night; you established the moon and the sun. 









###### 17 




You set all the boundaries of the earth; you made summer and winter. 









###### 18 




Remember this: the enemy has mocked the Lord, and a foolish people has insulted your name. 









###### 19 




Do not give to beasts the life of your dove;[^f] do not forget the lives of your poor people forever. 









###### 20 




Consider the covenant, for the dark places of the land are full of violence. 









###### 21 




Do not let the oppressed turn away in shame; let the poor and needy praise your name. 









###### 22 




Rise up, God, champion your cause! Remember the insults that fools bring against you all day long. 









###### 23 




Do not forget the clamor of your adversaries, the tumult of your opponents that goes up constantly. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 74:3 Lit <em>Lift up your steps</em> [^b]: 74:4 Lit <em>in your meeting place</em> [^c]: 74:7 Lit <em>they to the ground</em> [^d]: 74:8 Lit <em>every meeting place of God in the land</em> [^e]: 74:11 Lit <em>From your bosom</em> [^f]: 74:19 One Hb ms, LXX, Syr read <em>life that praises you</em>
