---
Aliases: [Psalms 77]
previous: ['Ps 76']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 78']
---
# Psalms 77

***










###### 1 




I cry aloud to God, aloud to God, and he will hear me. 









###### 2 




I sought the Lord in my day of trouble. My hands were continually lifted up all night long; I refused to be comforted. 









###### 3 




I think of God; I groan; I meditate; my spirit becomes weak.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 4 




You have kept me from closing my eyes; I am troubled and cannot speak. 









###### 5 




I consider days of old, years long past. 









###### 6 




At night I remember my music; I meditate in my heart, and my spirit ponders. 









###### 7 




"Will the Lord reject forever and never again show favor? 









###### 8 




Has his faithful love ceased forever? Is his promise at an end for all generations? 









###### 9 




Has God forgotten to be gracious? Has he in anger withheld his compassion?" <i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 10 




So I say, "I am grieved that the right hand of the Most High has changed."[^a] 









###### 11 




I will remember the Lord's works; yes, I will remember your ancient wonders. 









###### 12 




I will reflect on all you have done and meditate on your actions. 









###### 13 




God, your way is holy. What god is great like God? 









###### 14 




You are the God who works wonders; you revealed your strength among the peoples. 









###### 15 




With power you redeemed your people, the descendants of Jacob and Joseph.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 16 




The water saw you, God. The water saw you; it trembled. Even the depths shook. 









###### 17 




The clouds poured down water. The storm clouds thundered; your arrows flashed back and forth. 









###### 18 




The sound of your thunder was in the whirlwind; lightning lit up the world. The earth shook and quaked. 









###### 19 




Your way went through the sea and your path through the vast water, but your footprints were unseen. 









###### 20 




You led your people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 77:10 Hb obscure
