---
Aliases: [Psalms 73]
previous: ['Ps 72']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 74']
---
# Psalms 73

***










###### 1 




God is indeed good to Israel, to the pure in heart. 









###### 2 




But as for me, my feet almost slipped; my steps nearly went astray. 









###### 3 




For I envied the arrogant; I saw the prosperity of the wicked. 









###### 4 




They have an easy time until they die,[^a] and their bodies are well fed.[^b] 









###### 5 




They are not in trouble like others; they are not afflicted like most people. 









###### 6 




Therefore, pride is their necklace, and violence covers them like a garment. 









###### 7 




Their eyes bulge out from fatness; the imaginations of their hearts run wild. 









###### 8 




They mock, and they speak maliciously; they arrogantly threaten oppression. 









###### 9 




They set their mouths against heaven, and their tongues strut across the earth. 









###### 10 




Therefore his people turn to them[^c] and drink in their overflowing words.[^d] 









###### 11 




The wicked say, "How can God know? Does the Most High know everything?" 









###### 12 




Look at them--the wicked! They are always at ease, and they increase their wealth. 









###### 13 




Did I purify my heart and wash my hands in innocence for nothing? 









###### 14 




For I am afflicted all day long and punished every morning. 









###### 15 




If I had decided to say these things aloud, I would have betrayed your people.[^e] 









###### 16 




When I tried to understand all this, it seemed hopeless[^f] 









###### 17 




until I entered God's sanctuary. Then I understood their destiny. 









###### 18 




Indeed, you put them in slippery places; you make them fall into ruin. 









###### 19 




How suddenly they become a desolation! They come to an end, swept away by terrors. 









###### 20 




Like one waking from a dream, Lord, when arising, you will despise their image. 









###### 21 




When I became embittered and my innermost being[^g] was wounded, 









###### 22 




I was stupid and didn't understand; I was an unthinking animal toward you. 









###### 23 




Yet I am always with you; you hold my right hand. 









###### 24 




You guide me with your counsel, and afterward you will take me up in glory.[^h] 









###### 25 




Who do I have in heaven but you? And I desire nothing on earth but you. 









###### 26 




My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength[^i] of my heart, my portion forever. 









###### 27 




Those far from you will certainly perish; you destroy all who are unfaithful to you. 









###### 28 




But as for me, God's presence is my good. I have made the Lord God my refuge, so I can tell about all you do. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 73:4 Lit <em>For there are no pangs to their death</em> [^b]: 73:4 Lit <em>fat</em> [^c]: 73:10 Lit <em>turn here</em> [^d]: 73:10 Lit <em>and waters of fullness are drained by them</em> [^e]: 73:15 Lit <em>betrayed the generation of your sons</em> [^f]: 73:16 Lit <em>it was trouble in my eyes</em> [^g]: 73:21 Lit <em>my kidneys</em> [^h]: 73:24 Or <em>will receive me with honor</em> [^i]: 73:26 Lit <em>rock</em>
