---
Aliases: [Psalms 76]
previous: ['Ps 75']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 77']
---
# Psalms 76

***










###### 1 




God is known in Judah; his name is great in Israel. 









###### 2 




His tent is in Salem, his dwelling place in Zion. 









###### 3 




There he shatters the bow's flaming arrows, the shield, the sword, and the weapons of war.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 4 




You are resplendent and majestic coming down from the mountains of prey. 









###### 5 




The brave-hearted have been plundered; they have slipped into their final sleep. None of the warriors was able to lift a hand. 









###### 6 




At your rebuke, God of Jacob, both chariot and horse lay still. 









###### 7 




And you--you are to be feared.[^a] When you are angry, who can stand before you? 









###### 8 




From heaven you pronounced judgment. The earth feared and grew quiet 









###### 9 




when God rose up to judge and to save all the lowly of the earth.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 10 




Even human wrath will praise you; you will clothe yourself with the wrath that remains.[^b] 









###### 11 




Make and keep your vows to the Lord your God; let all who are around him bring tribute to the awe-inspiring one.[^c] 









###### 12 




He humbles the spirit of leaders; he is feared by the kings of the earth. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 76:7 Or <em>are awe-inspiring</em> [^b]: 76:10 Hb obscure [^c]: 76:11 Or <em>tribute with awe</em>
