---
Aliases: [Psalms 72]
previous: ['Ps 71']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 73']
---
# Psalms 72

***










###### 1 




God, give your justice to the king and your righteousness to the king's son. 









###### 2 




He will judge your people with righteousness and your afflicted ones with justice. 









###### 3 




May the mountains bring well-being[^a] to the people and the hills, righteousness. 









###### 4 




May he vindicate the afflicted among the people, help the poor, and crush the oppressor. 









###### 5 




May they fear you[^b] while the sun endures and as long as the moon, throughout all generations. 









###### 6 




May the king be like rain that falls on the cut grass, like spring showers that water the earth. 









###### 7 




May the righteous[^c] flourish in his days and well-being abound until the moon is no more. 









###### 8 




May he rule from sea to sea and from the Euphrates to the ends of the earth. 









###### 9 




May desert tribes kneel before him and his enemies lick the dust. 









###### 10 




May the kings of Tarshish and the coasts and islands bring tribute, the kings of Sheba and Seba offer gifts. 









###### 11 




Let all kings bow in homage to him, all nations serve him. 









###### 12 




For he will rescue the poor who cry out and the afflicted who have no helper. 









###### 13 




He will have pity on the poor and helpless and save the lives of the poor. 









###### 14 




He will redeem them from oppression and violence, for their lives are[^d] precious[^e] in his sight. 









###### 15 




May he live long! May gold from Sheba be given to him. May prayer be offered for him continually, and may he be blessed all day long. 









###### 16 




May there be plenty of grain in the land; may it wave on the tops of the mountains. May its crops be like Lebanon. May people flourish in the cities like the grass of the field. 









###### 17 




May his name endure forever; as long as the sun shines, may his fame increase. May all nations be blessed by him and call him blessed. 









###### 18 




Blessed be the Lord God, the God of Israel, who alone does wonders. 









###### 19 




Blessed be his glorious name forever; the whole earth is filled with his glory. Amen and amen. 









###### 20 




The prayers of David son of Jesse are concluded. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 72:3 Or <em>peace</em>, also in v. 7 [^b]: 72:5 LXX reads <em>May he continue</em> [^c]: 72:7 Some Hb mss, LXX, Syr, Jer read <em>May righteousness</em> [^d]: 72:14 Lit <em>their blood is</em> [^e]: 72:14 Or <em>valuable</em>
