---
Aliases: [Psalms 75]
previous: ['Ps 74']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 76']
---
# Psalms 75

***










###### 1 




We give thanks to you, God; we give thanks to you, for your name is near. People tell about your wondrous works. 









###### 2 




"When I choose a time, I will judge fairly. 









###### 3 




When the earth and all its inhabitants shake, I am the one who steadies its pillars.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 4 




I say to the boastful, 'Do not boast,' and to the wicked, 'Do not lift up your horn. 









###### 5 




Do not lift up your horn against heaven[^a] or speak arrogantly.'" 









###### 6 




Exaltation does not come from the east, the west, or the desert, 









###### 7 




for God is the Judge: He brings down one and exalts another. 









###### 8 




For there is a cup in the Lord's hand, full of wine blended with spices, and he pours from it. All the wicked of the earth will drink, draining it to the dregs. 









###### 9 




As for me, I will tell about him forever; I will sing praise to the God of Jacob. 









###### 10 




"I will cut off all the horns of the wicked, but the horns of the righteous will be lifted up." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 75:5 Lit <em>horn to the height</em>
