---
Aliases: [Psalms 88]
previous: ['Ps 87']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 89']
---
# Psalms 88

***










###### 1 




Lord, God of my salvation, I cry out before you day and night. 









###### 2 




May my prayer reach your presence; listen to my cry. 









###### 3 




For I have had enough troubles, and my life is near Sheol. 









###### 4 




I am counted among those going down to the Pit. I am like a man without strength, 









###### 5 




abandoned[^a] among the dead. I am like the slain lying in the grave, whom you no longer remember, and who are cut off from your care.[^b] 









###### 6 




You have put me in the lowest part of the Pit, in the darkest places, in the depths. 









###### 7 




Your wrath weighs heavily on me; you have overwhelmed me with all your waves.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 8 




You have distanced my friends from me; you have made me repulsive to them. I am shut in and cannot go out. 









###### 9 




My eyes are worn out from crying. Lord, I cry out to you all day long; I spread out my hands to you. 









###### 10 




Do you work wonders for the dead? Do departed spirits rise up to praise you?<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 11 




Will your faithful love be declared in the grave, your faithfulness in Abaddon? 









###### 12 




Will your wonders be known in the darkness or your righteousness in the land of oblivion? 









###### 13 




But I call to you for help, Lord; in the morning my prayer meets you. 









###### 14 




Lord, why do you reject me? Why do you hide your face from me? 









###### 15 




From my youth, I have been suffering and near death. I suffer your horrors; I am desperate. 









###### 16 




Your wrath sweeps over me; your terrors destroy me. 









###### 17 




They surround me like water all day long; they close in on me from every side. 









###### 18 




You have distanced loved one and neighbor from me; darkness is my only friend.[^c] ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 88:5 Or <em>set free</em> [^b]: 88:5 Or <em>hand</em> [^c]: 88:18 Or <em>from me, my friends. Oh darkness!</em>
