---
Aliases: [Psalms 84]
previous: ['Ps 83']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 85']
---
# Psalms 84

***










###### 1 




How lovely is your dwelling place, Lord of Armies. 









###### 2 




I long and yearn for the courts of the Lord; my heart and flesh cry out for[^a] the living God. 









###### 3 




Even a sparrow finds a home, and a swallow, a nest for herself where she places her young-- near your altars, Lord of Armies, my King and my God. 









###### 4 




How happy are those who reside in your house, who praise you continually.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 5 




Happy are the people whose strength is in you, whose hearts are set on pilgrimage. 









###### 6 




As they pass through the Valley of Baca,[^b] they make it a source of spring water; even the autumn rain will cover it with blessings.[^c] 









###### 7 




They go from strength to strength; each appears before God in Zion. 









###### 8 




Lord God of Armies, hear my prayer; listen, God of Jacob.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 9 




Consider our shield,[^d] God; look on the face of your anointed one. 









###### 10 




Better a day in your courts than a thousand anywhere else. I would rather stand at the threshold of the house of my God than live in the tents of wicked people. 









###### 11 




For the Lord God is a sun and shield. The Lord grants favor and honor; he does not withhold the good from those who live with integrity. 









###### 12 




Happy is the person who trusts in you, Lord of Armies! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 84:2 Or <em>flesh shout for joy to</em> [^b]: 84:6 Or <em>Valley of Tears</em> [^c]: 84:6 Or <em>pools</em> [^d]: 84:9 = the king
