---
Aliases: [Psalms 80]
previous: ['Ps 79']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 81']
---
# Psalms 80

***










###### 1 




Listen, Shepherd of Israel, who leads Joseph like a flock; you who sit enthroned between the cherubim, shine <sup class="versenum mid-line">2</sup>on Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasseh. Rally your power and come to save us. 









###### 3 




Restore us, God; make your face shine on us, so that we may be saved. 









###### 4 




Lord God of Armies, how long will you be angry with your people's prayers? 









###### 5 




You fed them the bread of tears and gave them a full measure[^a] of tears to drink. 









###### 6 




You put us at odds with our neighbors; our enemies mock us. 









###### 7 




Restore us, God of Armies; make your face shine on us, so that we may be saved. 









###### 8 




You dug up a vine from Egypt; you drove out the nations and planted it. 









###### 9 




You cleared a place for it; it took root and filled the land. 









###### 10 




The mountains were covered by its shade, and the mighty cedars[^b] with its branches. 









###### 11 




It sent out sprouts toward the Sea[^c] and shoots toward the River.[^d] 









###### 12 




Why have you broken down its walls so that all who pass by pick its fruit? 









###### 13 




Boars from the forest tear at it and creatures of the field feed on it. 









###### 14 




Return, God of Armies. Look down from heaven and see; take care of this vine, 









###### 15 




the root[^e] your right hand planted, the son[^f] that you made strong for yourself. 









###### 16 




It was cut down and burned; they[^g] perish at the rebuke of your countenance. 









###### 17 




Let your hand be with the man at your right hand, with the son of man you have made strong for yourself. 









###### 18 




Then we will not turn away from you; revive us, and we will call on your name. 









###### 19 




Restore us, Lord, God of Armies; make your face shine on us, so that we may be saved. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 80:5 Lit <em>a one-third measure</em> [^b]: 80:10 Lit <em>the cedars of God</em> [^c]: 80:11 = the Mediterranean [^d]: 80:11 = the Euphrates [^e]: 80:15 Hb obscure [^f]: 80:15 Or <em>shoot</em> [^g]: 80:16 Or <em>may they</em>
