---
Aliases: [Psalms 81]
previous: ['Ps 80']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 82']
---
# Psalms 81

***










###### 1 




Sing for joy to God our strength; shout in triumph to the God of Jacob. 









###### 2 




Lift up a song--play the tambourine, the melodious lyre, and the harp. 









###### 3 




Blow the ram's horn on the day of our feasts[^a] during the new moon and during the full moon. 









###### 4 




For this is a statute for Israel, an ordinance of the God of Jacob. 









###### 5 




He set it up as a decree for Joseph when he went throughout[^b] the land of Egypt. I heard an unfamiliar language: 









###### 6 




"I relieved his shoulder from the burden; his hands were freed from carrying the basket. 









###### 7 




You called out in distress, and I rescued you; I answered you from the thundercloud. I tested you at the Waters of Meribah.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 8 




Listen, my people, and I will admonish you. Israel, if you would only listen to me! 









###### 9 




There must not be a strange god among you; you must not bow down to a foreign god. 









###### 10 




I am the Lord your God, who brought you up from the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it. 









###### 11 




"But my people did not listen to my voice; Israel did not obey me. 









###### 12 




So I gave them over to their stubborn hearts to follow their own plans. 









###### 13 




If only my people would listen to me and Israel would follow my ways, 









###### 14 




I would quickly subdue their enemies and turn my hand against their foes." 









###### 15 




Those who hate the Lord would cower to him; their doom would last forever. 









###### 16 




But he would feed Israel[^c] with the best wheat. "I would satisfy you with honey from the rock." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 81:3 Lit <em>feast</em> [^b]: 81:5 Or <em>he gained authority over</em> [^c]: 81:16 Lit <em>him</em>
