---
Aliases: [Psalms 85]
previous: ['Ps 84']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 86']
---
# Psalms 85

***










###### 1 




Lord, you showed favor to your land; you restored the fortunes of Jacob.[^a] 









###### 2 




You forgave your people's guilt; you covered all their sin.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 3 




You withdrew all your fury; you turned from your burning anger. 









###### 4 




Return to us, God of our salvation, and abandon your displeasure with us. 









###### 5 




Will you be angry with us forever? Will you prolong your anger for all generations? 









###### 6 




Will you not revive us again so that your people may rejoice in you? 









###### 7 




Show us your faithful love, Lord, and give us your salvation. 









###### 8 




I will listen to what God will say; surely the Lord will declare peace to his people, his faithful ones, and not let them go back to foolish ways. 









###### 9 




His salvation is very near those who fear him, so that glory may dwell in our land. 









###### 10 




Faithful love and truth will join together; righteousness and peace will embrace. 









###### 11 




Truth will spring up from the earth, and righteousness will look down from heaven. 









###### 12 




Also, the Lord will provide what is good, and our land will yield its crops. 









###### 13 




Righteousness will go before him to prepare the way for his steps. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 85:1 Or <em>restored Jacob from captivity</em>
