---
Aliases: [Psalms 83]
previous: ['Ps 82']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 84']
---
# Psalms 83

***










###### 1 




God, do not keep silent. Do not be deaf, God; do not be quiet. 









###### 2 




See how your enemies make an uproar; those who hate you have acted arrogantly.[^a] 









###### 3 




They devise clever schemes against your people; they conspire against your treasured ones. 









###### 4 




They say, "Come, let's wipe them out as a nation so that Israel's name will no longer be remembered." 









###### 5 




For they have conspired with one mind; they form an alliance[^b] against you-- 









###### 6 




the tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites, Moab and the Hagrites, 









###### 7 




Gebal, Ammon, and Amalek, Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre. 









###### 8 




Even Assyria has joined them; they lend support[^c] to the sons of Lot.[^d]<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 9 




Deal with them as you did with Midian, as you did with Sisera and Jabin at the Kishon River. 









###### 10 




They were destroyed at En-dor; they became manure for the ground. 









###### 11 




Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb, and all their tribal leaders like Zebah and Zalmunna, 









###### 12 




who said, "Let's seize God's pastures for ourselves." 









###### 13 




Make them like tumbleweed, my God, like straw before the wind. 









###### 14 




As fire burns a forest, as a flame blazes through mountains, 









###### 15 




so pursue them with your tempest and terrify them with your storm. 









###### 16 




Cover their faces with shame so that they will seek your name, Lord. 









###### 17 




Let them be put to shame and terrified forever; let them perish in disgrace. 









###### 18 




May they know that you alone-- whose name is the Lord-- are the Most High over the whole earth. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 83:2 Lit <em>have lifted their head</em> [^b]: 83:5 Lit <em>they cut a covenant</em> [^c]: 83:8 Lit <em>they are an arm</em> [^d]: 83:8 = Moab and Ammon
