---
Aliases: [Psalms 89]
previous: ['Ps 88']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 90']
---
# Psalms 89

***










###### 1 




I will sing about the Lord's faithful love forever; I will proclaim your faithfulness to all generations with my mouth. 









###### 2 




For I will declare, "Faithful love is built up forever; you establish your faithfulness in the heavens." 









###### 3 




The Lord said, "I have made a covenant with my chosen one; I have sworn an oath to David my servant: 









###### 4 




'I will establish your offspring forever and build up your throne for all generations.'"<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 5 




Lord, the heavens praise your wonders-- your faithfulness also-- in the assembly of the holy ones. 









###### 6 




For who in the skies can compare with the Lord? Who among the heavenly beings[^a] is like the Lord? 









###### 7 




God is greatly feared in the council of the holy ones, more awe-inspiring than[^b] all who surround him. 









###### 8 




Lord God of Armies, who is strong like you, Lord? Your faithfulness surrounds you. 









###### 9 




You rule the raging sea; when its waves surge, you still them. 









###### 10 




You crushed Rahab like one who is slain; you scattered your enemies with your powerful arm. 









###### 11 




The heavens are yours; the earth also is yours. The world and everything in it--you founded them. 









###### 12 




North and south--you created them. Tabor and Hermon shout for joy at your name. 









###### 13 




You have a mighty arm; your hand is powerful; your right hand is lifted high. 









###### 14 




Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne; faithful love and truth go before you. 









###### 15 




Happy are the people who know the joyful shout; Lord, they walk in the light from your face. 









###### 16 




They rejoice in your name all day long, and they are exalted by your righteousness. 









###### 17 




For you are their magnificent strength; by your favor our horn is exalted. 









###### 18 




Surely our shield[^c] belongs to the Lord, our king to the Holy One of Israel. 









###### 19 




You once spoke in a vision to your faithful ones and said, "I have granted help to a warrior; I have exalted one chosen[^d] from the people. 









###### 20 




I have found David my servant; I have anointed him with my sacred oil. 









###### 21 




My hand will always be with him, and my arm will strengthen him. 









###### 22 




The enemy will not oppress[^e] him; the wicked will not afflict him. 









###### 23 




I will crush his foes before him and strike those who hate him. 









###### 24 




My faithfulness and love will be with him, and through my name his horn will be exalted. 









###### 25 




I will extend his power to the sea and his right hand to the rivers. 









###### 26 




He will call to me, 'You are my Father, my God, the rock of my salvation.' 









###### 27 




I will also make him my firstborn, greatest of the kings of the earth. 









###### 28 




I will always preserve my faithful love for him, and my covenant with him will endure. 









###### 29 




I will establish his line forever, his throne as long as heaven lasts.[^f] 









###### 30 




If his sons abandon my instruction and do not live by my ordinances, 









###### 31 




if they dishonor my statutes and do not keep my commands, 









###### 32 




then I will call their rebellion to account with the rod, their iniquity with blows. 









###### 33 




But I will not withdraw my faithful love from him or betray my faithfulness. 









###### 34 




I will not violate my covenant or change what my lips have said. 









###### 35 




Once and for all I have sworn an oath by my holiness; I will not lie to David. 









###### 36 




His offspring will continue forever, his throne like the sun before me, 









###### 37 




like the moon, established forever, a faithful witness in the sky."<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 38 




But you have spurned and rejected him; you have become enraged with your anointed. 









###### 39 




You have repudiated the covenant with your servant; you have completely dishonored his crown.[^g] 









###### 40 




You have broken down all his walls; you have reduced his fortified cities to ruins. 









###### 41 




All who pass by plunder him; he has become an object of ridicule to his neighbors. 









###### 42 




You have lifted high the right hand of his foes; you have made all his enemies rejoice. 









###### 43 




You have also turned back his sharp sword and have not let him stand in battle. 









###### 44 




You have made his splendor[^h] cease and have overturned his throne. 









###### 45 




You have shortened the days of his youth; you have covered him with shame.<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 46 




How long, Lord? Will you hide forever? Will your anger keep burning like fire? 









###### 47 




Remember how short my life is. Have you created everyone for nothing? 









###### 48 




What courageous person can live and never see death? Who can save himself from the power of Sheol?<i class="selah">Selah_ 









###### 49 




Lord, where are the former acts of your faithful love that you swore to David in your faithfulness? 









###### 50 




Remember, Lord, the ridicule against your servants-- in my heart I carry abuse from all the peoples-- 









###### 51 




how your enemies have ridiculed, Lord, how they have ridiculed every step of your anointed. 









###### 52 




Blessed be the Lord forever. Amen and amen. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 89:6 Or <em>the angels</em>, or <em>the sons of the mighty</em> [^b]: 89:7 Or <em>ones, revered by</em> [^c]: 89:18 = the king [^d]: 89:19 Or <em>exalted a young man</em> [^e]: 89:22 Or <em>not exact tribute from</em> [^f]: 89:29 Lit <em>as days of heaven</em> [^g]: 89:39 Lit <em>have dishonored his crown to the ground</em> [^h]: 89:44 Hb obscure
