---
Aliases: [Psalms 86]
previous: ['Ps 85']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 87']
---
# Psalms 86

***










###### 1 




Listen, Lord, and answer me, for I am poor and needy. 









###### 2 




Protect my life, for I am faithful. You are my God; save your servant who trusts in you. 









###### 3 




Be gracious to me, Lord, for I call to you all day long. 









###### 4 




Bring joy to your servant's life, because I appeal to you, Lord. 









###### 5 




For you, Lord, are kind and ready to forgive, abounding in faithful love to all who call on you. 









###### 6 




Lord, hear my prayer; listen to my cries for mercy. 









###### 7 




I call on you in the day of my distress, for you will answer me. 









###### 8 




Lord, there is no one like you among the gods, and there are no works like yours. 









###### 9 




All the nations you have made will come and bow down before you, Lord, and will honor your name. 









###### 10 




For you are great and perform wonders; you alone are God. 









###### 11 




Teach me your way, Lord, and I will live by your truth. Give me an undivided mind to fear your name. 









###### 12 




I will praise you with all my heart, Lord my God, and will honor your name forever. 









###### 13 




For your faithful love for me is great, and you rescue my life from the depths of Sheol. 









###### 14 




God, arrogant people have attacked me; a gang of ruthless men intends to kill me. They do not let you guide them.[^a] 









###### 15 




But you, Lord, are a compassionate and gracious God, slow to anger and abounding in faithful love and truth. 









###### 16 




Turn to me and be gracious to me. Give your strength to your servant; save the son of your female servant. 









###### 17 




Show me a sign of your goodness; my enemies will see and be put to shame because you, Lord, have helped and comforted me. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 86:14 Lit <em>They do not set you in front of them</em>
