---
Aliases: [Psalms 90]
previous: ['Ps 89']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 91']
---
# Psalms 90

***










###### 1 




Lord, you have been our refuge[^a] in every generation. 









###### 2 




Before the mountains were born, before you gave birth to the earth and the world, from eternity to eternity, you are God. 









###### 3 




You return mankind to the dust, saying, "Return, descendants of Adam." 









###### 4 




For in your sight a thousand years are like yesterday that passes by, like a few hours of the night. 









###### 5 




You end their lives;[^b] they sleep. They are like grass that grows in the morning-- 









###### 6 




in the morning it sprouts and grows; by evening it withers and dries up. 









###### 7 




For we are consumed by your anger; we are terrified by your wrath. 









###### 8 




You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence. 









###### 9 




For all our days ebb away under your wrath; we end our years like a sigh. 









###### 10 




Our lives last[^c] seventy years or, if we are strong, eighty years. Even the best of them are[^d] struggle and sorrow; indeed, they pass quickly and we fly away. 









###### 11 




Who understands the power of your anger? Your wrath matches the fear that is due you. 









###### 12 




Teach us to number our days carefully so that we may develop wisdom in our hearts.[^e] 









###### 13 




Lord--how long? Turn and have compassion on your servants. 









###### 14 




Satisfy us in the morning with your faithful love so that we may shout with joy and be glad all our days. 









###### 15 




Make us rejoice for as many days as you have humbled us, for as many years as we have seen adversity. 









###### 16 




Let your work be seen by your servants, and your splendor by their children. 









###### 17 




Let the favor of the Lord our God be on us; establish for us the work of our hands-- establish the work of our hands! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 90:1 Some Hb mss, LXX; other Hb mss read <em>dwelling place</em> [^b]: 90:5 Or <em>You overwhelm them</em>; Hb obscure [^c]: 90:10 Lit <em>The days of our years in them</em> [^d]: 90:10 LXX, Tg, Syr, Vg read <em>Even their span is</em>; Hb obscure [^e]: 90:12 Or <em>develop a heart of wisdom</em>
