---
Aliases: [Psalms 99]
previous: ['Ps 98']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 100']
---
# Psalms 99

***










###### 1 




The Lord reigns! Let the peoples tremble. He is enthroned between the cherubim. Let the earth quake. 









###### 2 




The Lord is great in Zion; he is exalted above all the peoples. 









###### 3 




Let them praise your great and awe-inspiring name. He is holy. 









###### 4 




The mighty King loves justice. You have established fairness; you have administered justice and righteousness in Jacob. 









###### 5 




Exalt the Lord our God; bow in worship at his footstool. He is holy. 









###### 6 




Moses and Aaron were among his priests; Samuel also was among those calling on his name. They called to the Lord and he answered them. 









###### 7 




He spoke to them in a pillar of cloud; they kept his decrees and the statutes he gave them. 









###### 8 




Lord our God, you answered them. You were a forgiving God to them, but an avenger of their sinful actions. 









###### 9 




Exalt the Lord our God; bow in worship at his holy mountain, for the Lord our God is holy. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
