---
Aliases: [Psalms 91]
previous: ['Ps 90']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 92']
---
# Psalms 91

***










###### 1 




The one who lives under the protection of the Most High dwells in the shadow of the Almighty. 









###### 2 




I will say[^a] concerning the Lord, who is my refuge and my fortress, my God in whom I trust: 









###### 3 




He himself will rescue you from the bird trap, from the destructive plague. 









###### 4 




He will cover you with his feathers; you will take refuge under his wings. His faithfulness will be a protective shield. 









###### 5 




You will not fear the terror of the night, the arrow that flies by day, 









###### 6 




the plague that stalks in darkness, or the pestilence that ravages at noon. 









###### 7 




Though a thousand fall at your side and ten thousand at your right hand, the pestilence will not reach you. 









###### 8 




You will only see it with your eyes and witness the punishment of the wicked. 









###### 9 




Because you have made the Lord--my refuge, the Most High--your dwelling place, 









###### 10 




no harm will come to you; no plague will come near your tent. 









###### 11 




For he will give his angels orders concerning you, to protect you in all your ways. 









###### 12 




They will support you with their hands so that you will not strike your foot against a stone. 









###### 13 




You will tread on the lion and the cobra; you will trample the young lion and the serpent. 









###### 14 




Because he has his heart set on me, I will deliver him; I will protect him because he knows my name. 









###### 15 




When he calls out to me, I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble. I will rescue him and give him honor. 









###### 16 




I will satisfy him with a long life and show him my salvation. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 91:1–2 LXX, Syr, Jer read <sup class="versenum">2 </sup><em>Almighty, saying</em>, or <sup class="versenum">2 </sup><em>Almighty, he will say</em>
