---
Aliases: [Psalms 92]
previous: ['Ps 91']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 93']
---
# Psalms 92

***










###### 1 




It is good to give thanks to the Lord, to sing praise to your name, Most High, 









###### 2 




to declare your faithful love in the morning and your faithfulness at night, 









###### 3 




with a ten-stringed harp[^a] and the music of a lyre. 









###### 4 




For you have made me rejoice, Lord, by what you have done; I will shout for joy because of the works of your hands. 









###### 5 




How magnificent are your works, Lord, how profound your thoughts! 









###### 6 




A stupid person does not know, a fool does not understand this: 









###### 7 




though the wicked sprout like grass and all evildoers flourish, they will be eternally destroyed. 









###### 8 




But you, Lord, are exalted forever. 









###### 9 




For indeed, Lord, your enemies-- indeed, your enemies will perish; all evildoers will be scattered. 









###### 10 




You have lifted up my horn like that of a wild ox; I have been anointed[^b] with the finest oil. 









###### 11 




My eyes look at my enemies; when evildoers rise against me, my ears hear them. 









###### 12 




The righteous thrive like a palm tree and grow like a cedar tree in Lebanon. 









###### 13 




Planted in the house of the Lord, they thrive in the courts of our God. 









###### 14 




They will still bear fruit in old age, healthy and green, 









###### 15 




to declare, "The Lord is just; he is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 92:3 Or <em>ten-stringed instrument and a harp</em> [^b]: 92:10 Syr reads <em>you have anointed me</em>
