---
Aliases: [Psalms 97]
previous: ['Ps 96']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 98']
---
# Psalms 97

***










###### 1 




The Lord reigns! Let the earth rejoice; let the many coasts and islands be glad. 









###### 2 




Clouds and total darkness surround him; righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne. 









###### 3 




Fire goes before him and burns up his foes on every side. 









###### 4 




His lightning lights up the world; the earth sees and trembles. 









###### 5 




The mountains melt like wax at the presence of the Lord-- at the presence of the Lord of the whole earth. 









###### 6 




The heavens proclaim his righteousness; all the peoples see his glory. 









###### 7 




All who serve carved images, those who boast in worthless idols, will be put to shame. All the gods[^a] must worship him. 









###### 8 




Zion hears and is glad, Judah's villages[^b] rejoice because of your judgments, Lord. 









###### 9 




For you, Lord, are the Most High over the whole earth; you are exalted above all the gods. 









###### 10 




You who love the Lord, hate evil! He protects the lives of his faithful ones; he rescues them from the power of the wicked. 









###### 11 




Light dawns[^c][^d] for the righteous, gladness for the upright in heart. 









###### 12 




Be glad in the Lord, you righteous ones, and give thanks to his holy name.[^e] ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 97:7 LXX, Syr read <em>All his angels</em>; Heb 1:6 [^b]: 97:8 Lit <em>daughters</em> [^c]: 97:11 One Hb ms, LXX, some ancient versions read <em>rises to shine</em>; Ps 112:4 [^d]: 97:11 Lit <em>Light is sown</em> [^e]: 97:12 Lit <em>to the memory of his holiness</em>
