---
Aliases: [Psalms 95]
previous: ['Ps 94']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 96']
---
# Psalms 95

***










###### 1 




Come, let's shout joyfully to the Lord, shout triumphantly to the rock of our salvation! 









###### 2 




Let's enter his presence with thanksgiving; let's shout triumphantly to him in song. 









###### 3 




For the Lord is a great God, a great King above all gods. 









###### 4 




The depths of the earth are in his hand, and the mountain peaks are his. 









###### 5 




The sea is his; he made it. His hands formed the dry land. 









###### 6 




Come, let's worship and bow down; let's kneel before the Lord our Maker. 









###### 7 




For he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture, the sheep under his care.[^a] Today, if you hear his voice: 









###### 8 




Do not harden your hearts as at Meribah, as on that day at Massah in the wilderness 









###### 9 




where your ancestors tested me; they tried me, though they had seen what I did. 









###### 10 




For forty years I was disgusted with that generation; I said, "They are a people whose hearts go astray; they do not know my ways." 









###### 11 




So I swore in my anger, "They will not enter my rest." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 95:7 Lit <em>sheep of his hand</em>
