---
Aliases: [Psalms 94]
previous: ['Ps 93']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 95']
---
# Psalms 94

***










###### 1 




Lord, God of vengeance-- God of vengeance, shine! 









###### 2 




Rise up, Judge of the earth; repay the proud what they deserve. 









###### 3 




Lord, how long will the wicked-- how long will the wicked celebrate? 









###### 4 




They pour out arrogant words; all the evildoers boast. 









###### 5 




Lord, they crush your people; they oppress your heritage. 









###### 6 




They kill the widow and the resident alien and murder the fatherless. 









###### 7 




They say, "The Lord doesn't see it. The God of Jacob doesn't pay attention." 









###### 8 




Pay attention, you stupid people! Fools, when will you be wise? 









###### 9 




Can the one who shaped the ear not hear, the one who formed the eye not see? 









###### 10 




The one who instructs nations, the one who teaches mankind knowledge-- does he not discipline? 









###### 11 




The Lord knows the thoughts of mankind; they are futile. 









###### 12 




Lord, how happy is anyone you discipline and teach from your law 









###### 13 




to give him relief from troubled times until a pit is dug for the wicked. 









###### 14 




The Lord will not leave his people or abandon his heritage, 









###### 15 




for the administration of justice will again be righteous, and all the upright in heart will follow[^a] it. 









###### 16 




Who stands up for me against the wicked? Who takes a stand for me against evildoers? 









###### 17 




If the Lord had not been my helper, I would soon rest in the silence of death. 









###### 18 




If I say, "My foot is slipping," your faithful love will support me, Lord. 









###### 19 




When I am filled with cares, your comfort brings me joy. 









###### 20 




Can a corrupt throne be your ally, a throne that makes evil laws? 









###### 21 




They band together against the life of the righteous and condemn the innocent to death. 









###### 22 




But the Lord is my refuge; my God is the rock of my protection. 









###### 23 




He will pay them back for their sins and destroy them for their evil. The Lord our God will destroy them. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 94:15 Or <em>heart will support</em>; lit <em>heart after</em>
