---
Aliases: [Psalms 96]
previous: ['Ps 95']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 97']
---
# Psalms 96

***










###### 1 




Sing a new song to the Lord; let the whole earth sing to the Lord. 









###### 2 




Sing to the Lord, bless his name; proclaim his salvation from day to day. 









###### 3 




Declare his glory among the nations, his wondrous works among all peoples. 









###### 4 




For the Lord is great and is highly praised; he is feared above all gods. 









###### 5 




For all the gods of the peoples are worthless idols, but the Lord made the heavens. 









###### 6 




Splendor and majesty are before him; strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. 









###### 7 




Ascribe to the Lord, you families of the peoples, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength. 









###### 8 




Ascribe to the Lord the glory of his name; bring an offering and enter his courts. 









###### 9 




Worship the Lord in the splendor of his holiness; let the whole earth tremble before him. 









###### 10 




Say among the nations, "The Lord reigns. The world is firmly established; it cannot be shaken. He judges the peoples fairly." 









###### 11 




Let the heavens be glad and the earth rejoice; let the sea and all that fills it resound. 









###### 12 




Let the fields and everything in them celebrate. Then all the trees of the forest will shout for joy 









###### 13 




before the Lord, for he is coming-- for he is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness and the peoples with his faithfulness. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
