---
Aliases: [Psalms 98]
previous: ['Ps 97']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 99']
---
# Psalms 98

***










###### 1 




Sing a new song to the Lord, for he has performed wonders; his right hand and holy arm have won him victory. 









###### 2 




The Lord has made his victory known; he has revealed his righteousness in the sight of the nations. 









###### 3 




He has remembered his love and faithfulness to the house of Israel; all the ends of the earth have seen our God's victory. 









###### 4 




Let the whole earth shout to the Lord; be jubilant, shout for joy, and sing. 









###### 5 




Sing to the Lord with the lyre, with the lyre and melodious song. 









###### 6 




With trumpets and the blast of the ram's horn shout triumphantly in the presence of the Lord, our King. 









###### 7 




Let the sea and all that fills it, the world and those who live in it, resound. 









###### 8 




Let the rivers clap their hands; let the mountains shout together for joy 









###### 9 




before the Lord, for he is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the world righteously and the peoples fairly. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
