---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 22]
previous: ['2 Chr 21']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 23']
---
# 2 Chronicles 22

***




###### 1 

Then the people of Jerusalem made Ahaziah, Jehoram's youngest son, their next king, since the marauding bands who came with the Arabs[^a] had killed all the older sons. So Ahaziah son of Jehoram reigned as king of Judah. 



###### 2 

Ahaziah was twenty-two[^b] years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem one year. His mother was Athaliah, a granddaughter of King Omri. 



###### 3 

Ahaziah also followed the evil example of King Ahab's family, for his mother encouraged him in doing wrong. 



###### 4 

He did what was evil in the LORD's sight, just as Ahab's family had done. They even became his advisers after the death of his father, and they led him to ruin. 



###### 5 

Following their evil advice, Ahaziah joined Joram,[^c] the son of King Ahab of Israel, in his war against King Hazael of Aram at Ramoth-gilead. When the Arameans[^d] wounded Joram in the battle, 



###### 6 

he returned to Jezreel to recover from the wounds he had received at Ramoth.[^e] Because Joram was wounded, King Ahaziah[^f] of Judah went to Jezreel to visit him. 



###### 7 

But God had decided that this visit would be Ahaziah's downfall. While he was there, Ahaziah went out with Joram to meet Jehu grandson of Nimshi,[^g] whom the LORD had appointed to destroy the dynasty of Ahab. 



###### 8 

While Jehu was executing judgment against the family of Ahab, he happened to meet some of Judah's officials and Ahaziah's relatives[^h] who were traveling with Ahaziah. So Jehu killed them all. 



###### 9 

Then Jehu's men searched for Ahaziah, and they found him hiding in the city of Samaria. They brought him to Jehu, who killed him. Ahaziah was given a decent burial because the people said, "He was the grandson of Jehoshaphat--a man who sought the LORD with all his heart." But none of the surviving members of Ahaziah's family was capable of ruling the kingdom. ## Queen Athaliah Rules in Judah 



###### 10 

When Athaliah, the mother of King Ahaziah of Judah, learned that her son was dead, she began to destroy the rest of Judah's royal family. 



###### 11 

But Ahaziah's sister Jehosheba,[^i] the daughter of King Jehoram, took Ahaziah's infant son, Joash, and stole him away from among the rest of the king's children, who were about to be killed. She put Joash and his nurse in a bedroom. In this way, Jehosheba, wife of Jehoiada the priest and sister of Ahaziah, hid the child so that Athaliah could not murder him. 



###### 12 

Joash remained hidden in the Temple of God for six years while Athaliah ruled over the land. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 22:1 Or _marauding bands of Arabs._ [^b]: 22:2 As in some Greek manuscripts and Syriac version (see also [2 Kgs 8:26]); Hebrew reads _forty-two._ [^c]: 22:5a Hebrew _Jehoram,_ a variant spelling of Joram; also in [22:6], [7]. [^d]: 22:5b As in two Hebrew manuscripts and Latin Vulgate (see also [2 Kgs 8:28]); Masoretic Text reads _the archers._ [^e]: 22:6a Hebrew _Ramah,_ a variant spelling of Ramoth. [^f]: 22:6b As in some Hebrew manuscripts, Greek and Syriac versions, and Latin Vulgate (see also [2 Kgs 8:29]); most Hebrew manuscripts read _Azariah._ [^g]: 22:7 Hebrew _descendant of Nimshi;_ compare [2 Kgs 9:2], [14]. [^h]: 22:8 As in Greek version (see also [2 Kgs 10:13]); Hebrew reads _and sons of the brothers of Ahaziah._ [^i]: 22:11 As in parallel text at [2 Kgs 11:2]; Hebrew lacks _Ahaziah’s sister_ and reads _Jehoshabeath_ [a variant spelling of Jehosheba].
