---
Aliases: [Psalms 10]
previous: ['Ps 9']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 11']
---
# Psalms 10

***














###### 1 






Why do You stand afar off, O Lord? Why do You hide Yourself, [veiling Your eyes] in times of trouble (distress and desperation)? 













###### 2 






The wicked in pride _and_ arrogance hotly pursue _and_ persecute the poor; let them be taken in the schemes which they have devised. 













###### 3 






For the wicked _man_ boasts (sings the praises) of his own heart's desire, and the one greedy for gain curses _and_ spurns, yes, renounces _and_ despises the Lord. 













###### 4 






The wicked one in the pride of his countenance will not seek, inquire for, _and_ yearn for God; all his thoughts are that there is no God [so He never punishes]. 













###### 5 






His ways are grievous [or persist] at all times; Your judgments [Lord] are far above _and_ on high out of his sight [so he never thinks about them]; as for all his foes, he sniffs _and_ sneers at them. 













###### 6 






He thinks in his heart, I shall not be moved; for throughout all generations I shall not come to want _or_ be in adversity. 













###### 7 






His mouth is full of cursing, deceit, oppression (fraud); under his tongue are trouble and sin (mischief and iniquity). 













###### 8 






He sits in ambush in the villages; in hiding places he slays the innocent; he watches stealthily for the poor (the helpless and unfortunate). 













###### 9 






He lurks in secret places like a lion in his thicket; he lies in wait that he may seize the poor (the helpless and the unfortunate); he seizes the poor when he draws him into his net. 













###### 10 






[The prey] is crushed, sinks down; and the helpless falls by his mighty [claws]. 













###### 11 






[The foe] thinks in his heart, God has quite forgotten; He has hidden His face; He will never see [my deed]. 













###### 12 






Arise, O Lord! O God, lift up Your hand; forget not the humble [patient and crushed]. 













###### 13 






Why does the wicked [man] condemn (spurn and renounce) God? Why has he thought in his heart, You will not call to account? 













###### 14 






You have seen it; yes, You note trouble and grief (vexation) to requite it with Your hand. The unfortunate commits himself to You; You are the helper of the fatherless. 













###### 15 






Break the arm of the wicked man; and as for the evil man, search out his wickedness until You find no more. 













###### 16 






The Lord is King forever and ever; the nations will perish out of His land. 













###### 17 






O Lord, You have heard the desire _and_ the longing of the humble _and_ oppressed; You will prepare _and_ strengthen _and_ direct their hearts, You will cause Your ear to hear, 













###### 18 






To do justice to the fatherless and the oppressed, so that man, who is of the earth, may not terrify them any more.
