---
Aliases: [Psalms 145]
previous: ['Ps 144']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 146']
---
# Psalms 145

***














###### 1 






I will extol You, my God, O King; and I will bless Your name forever and ever [with grateful, affectionate praise]. 













###### 2 






Every day [with its new reasons] will I bless You [affectionately and gratefully praise You]; yes, I will praise Your name forever and ever. 













###### 3 






Great is the Lord and highly to be praised; and His greatness is [so vast and deep as to be] unsearchable. 













###### 4 






One generation shall laud Your works to another and shall declare Your mighty acts. 













###### 5 






On the glorious splendor of Your majesty and on Your wondrous works I will meditate. 













###### 6 






Men shall speak of the might of Your tremendous _and_ terrible acts, and I will declare Your greatness. 













###### 7 






They shall pour forth [like a fountain] the fame of Your great _and_ abundant goodness and shall sing aloud of Your rightness _and_ justice. 













###### 8 






The Lord is gracious and full of compassion, slow to anger and abounding in mercy _and_ loving-kindness. 













###### 9 






The Lord is good to all, and His tender mercies are over all His works [the entirety of things created]. 













###### 10 






All Your works shall praise You, O Lord, and Your loving ones shall bless You [affectionately and gratefully shall Your saints confess and praise You]! 













###### 11 






They shall speak of the glory of Your kingdom and talk of Your power, 













###### 12 






To make known to the sons of men God's mighty deeds and the glorious majesty of His kingdom. 













###### 13 






Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and Your dominion endures throughout all generations. 













###### 14 






The Lord upholds all those [of His own] who are falling and raises up all those who are bowed down. 













###### 15 






The eyes of all wait for You [looking, watching, and expecting] and You give them their food in due season. 













###### 16 






You open Your hand and satisfy every living thing with favor. 













###### 17 






The Lord is [rigidly] righteous in all His ways and gracious _and_ merciful in all His works. 













###### 18 






The Lord is near to all who call upon Him, to all who call upon Him sincerely _and_ in truth. 













###### 19 






He will fulfill the desires of those who reverently _and_ worshipfully fear Him; He also will hear their cry and will save them. 













###### 20 






The Lord preserves all those who love Him, but all the wicked will He destroy. 













###### 21 






My mouth shall speak the praise of the Lord; and let all flesh bless (affectionately and gratefully praise) His holy name forever and ever.
