---
Aliases: [Psalms 128]
previous: ['Ps 127']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 129']
---
# Psalms 128

***














###### 1 






Blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) is everyone who fears, reveres, _and_ worships the Lord, who walks in His ways _and_ lives according to His commandments. 













###### 2 






For you shall eat [the fruit] of the labor of your hands; happy (blessed, fortunate, enviable) shall you be, and it shall be well with you. 













###### 3 






Your wife shall be like a fruitful vine in the innermost parts of your house; your children shall be like olive plants round about your table. 













###### 4 






Behold, thus shall the man be blessed who reverently _and_ worshipfully fears the Lord. 













###### 5 






May the Lord bless you out of Zion [His sanctuary], and may you see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of your life; 













###### 6 






Yes, may you see your children's children. Peace be upon Israel! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 128:1 See Psalm 120 title footnote.
