---
Aliases: [Psalms 141]
previous: ['Ps 140']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 142']
---
# Psalms 141

***














###### 1 






Lord, I call upon You; hasten to me. Give ear to my voice when I cry to You. 













###### 2 






Let my prayer be set forth as incense before You, the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice. 













###### 3 






Set a guard, O Lord, before my mouth; keep watch at the door of my lips. 













###### 4 






Incline my heart not to submit _or_ consent to any evil thing or to be occupied in deeds of wickedness with men who work iniquity; and let me not eat of their dainties. 













###### 5 






Let the righteous man smite and correct me--it is a kindness. Oil so choice let not my head refuse _or_ discourage; for even in their evils _or_ calamities shall my prayer continue. 













###### 6 






When their rulers are overthrown in stony places, [their followers] shall hear my words, that they are sweet (pleasant, mild, and just). 













###### 7 






The unburied bones [of slaughtered rulers] shall lie scattered at the mouth of Sheol, [as unregarded] as the lumps of soil behind the plowman when he breaks open the ground. 













###### 8 






But my eyes are toward You, O God the Lord; in You do I trust _and_ take refuge; pour not out my life _nor_ leave it destitute _and_ bare. 













###### 9 






Keep me from the trap which they have laid for me, and the snares of evildoers. 













###### 10 






Let the wicked fall together into their own nets, while I pass over them _and_ escape. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
