---
Aliases: [Psalms 109]
previous: ['Ps 108']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 110']
---
# Psalms 109

***














###### 1 






O God of my praise! Keep not silence, 













###### 2 






For the mouths of the wicked and the mouth of deceit are opened against me; they have spoken to me _and_ against me with lying tongues. 













###### 3 






They have compassed me about also with words of hatred and have fought against me without a cause. 













###### 4 






In return for my love they are my adversaries, but I resort to prayer. 













###### 5 






And they have rewarded _and_ laid upon me evil for good, and hatred for my love. 













###### 6 






Set a wicked man over him [as a judge], and let [a malicious] accuser stand at his right hand. 













###### 7 






When [the wicked] is judged, let him be condemned, and let his prayer [for leniency] be turned into a sin. 













###### 8 






Let his days be few; and let another take his office _and_ charge. 













###### 9 






Let his children be fatherless and his wife a widow. 













###### 10 






Let his children be continual vagabonds [as was Cain] and beg; let them seek their bread _and_ be driven far from their ruined homes. 













###### 11 






Let the creditor _and_ extortioner seize all that he has; and let strangers (barbarians and foreigners) plunder the fruits of his labor. 













###### 12 






Let there be none to extend _or_ continue mercy _and_ kindness to him, neither let there be any to have pity on his fatherless children. 













###### 13 






Let his posterity be cut off, and in the generation following let their names be blotted out. 













###### 14 






Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered by the Lord; and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out. 













###### 15 






Let them be before the Lord continually, that He may cut off the memory of them from the earth!-- 













###### 16 






Because the man did not [earnestly] remember to show mercy, but pursued _and_ persecuted the poor and needy man, and the broken in heart [he was ready] to slay. 













###### 17 






Yes, he loved cursing, and it came [back] upon him; he delighted not in blessing, and it was far from him. 













###### 18 






He clothed himself also with cursing as with his garment, and it seeped into his inward [life] like water, and like oil into his bones. 













###### 19 






Let it be to him as the raiment with which he covers himself and as the girdle with which he is girded continually. 













###### 20 






Let this be the reward of my adversaries from the Lord, and of those who speak evil against my life. 













###### 21 






But You deal with me _and_ act for me, O God the Lord, for Your name's sake; because Your mercy _and_ loving-kindness are good, O deliver me. 













###### 22 






For I am poor and needy, and my heart is wounded _and_ stricken within me. 













###### 23 






I am gone like the shadow when it lengthens _and_ declines; I toss up and down _and_ am shaken off as the locust. 













###### 24 






My knees are weak _and_ totter from fasting; and my body is gaunt _and_ has no fatness. 













###### 25 






I have become also a reproach _and_ a taunt to others; when they see me, they shake their heads. 













###### 26 






Help me, O Lord my God; O save me according to Your mercy _and_ loving-kindness!-- 













###### 27 






That they may know that this is Your hand, that You, Lord, have done it. 













###### 28 






Let them curse, but do You bless. When adversaries arise, let them be put to shame, but let Your servant rejoice. 













###### 29 






Let my adversaries be clothed with shame _and_ dishonor, and let them cover themselves with their own disgrace _and_ confusion as with a robe. 













###### 30 






I will give great praise _and_ thanks to the Lord with my mouth; yes, _and_ I will praise Him among the multitude. 













###### 31 






For He will stand at the right hand of the poor _and_ needy, to save him from those who condemn his life. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
