---
Aliases: [Psalms 135]
previous: ['Ps 134']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 136']
---
# Psalms 135

***














###### 1 






Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!) Praise the name of the Lord; praise Him, O you servants of the Lord! 













###### 2 






You who stand in the house of the Lord, in the courts of the house of our God, 













###### 3 






Praise the Lord! For the Lord is good; sing praises to His name, for He is gracious _and_ lovely! 













###### 4 






For the Lord has chosen [the descendants of] Jacob for Himself, Israel for His peculiar possession _and_ treasure. 













###### 5 






For I know that the Lord is great and that our Lord is above all gods. 













###### 6 






Whatever the Lord pleases, that has He done in the heavens and on earth, in the seas and all deeps-- 













###### 7 






Who causes the vapors to arise from the ends of the earth, Who makes lightnings for the rain, Who brings the wind out of His storehouses; 













###### 8 






Who smote the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and beast; 













###### 9 






Who sent signs and wonders into the midst of you, O Egypt, upon Pharaoh and all his servants; 













###### 10 






Who smote nations many _and_ great and slew mighty kings-- 













###### 11 






Sihon king of the Amorites, Og king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan. 













###### 12 






[The Lord] gave their land as a heritage, a heritage to Israel His people. 













###### 13 






Your name, O Lord, endures forever, Your fame, O Lord, throughout all ages. 













###### 14 






For the Lord will judge _and_ vindicate His people, and He will delay His judgments [manifesting His righteousness and mercy] _and_ take into favor His servants [those who meet His terms of separation unto Him]. 













###### 15 






The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of men's hands. 













###### 16 






[Idols] have mouths, but they speak not; eyes have they, but they see not; 













###### 17 






They have ears, but they hear not, nor is there any breath in their mouths. 













###### 18 






Those who make [idols] are like them; so is everyone who trusts in _and_ relies on them. 













###### 19 






Bless (affectionately and gratefully praise) the Lord, O house of Israel; bless the Lord, O house of Aaron [God's ministers]. 













###### 20 






Bless the Lord, O house of Levi [the dedicated tribe]; you who reverently _and_ worshipfully fear the Lord, bless the Lord [affectionately and gratefully praise Him]! 













###### 21 






Blessed out of Zion be the Lord, Who dwells [with us] at Jerusalem! Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!)
