---
Aliases: [Psalms 111]
previous: ['Ps 110']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 112']
---
# Psalms 111

***














###### 1 






Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!) I will praise _and_ give thanks to the Lord with my whole heart in the council of the upright and in the congregation. 













###### 2 






The works of the Lord are great, sought out by all those who have delight in them. 













###### 3 






His work is honorable and glorious, and His righteousness endures forever. 













###### 4 






He has made His wonderful works to be remembered; the Lord is gracious, merciful, _and_ full of loving compassion. 













###### 5 






He has given food _and_ provision to those who reverently _and_ worshipfully fear Him; He will remember His covenant forever _and_ imprint it [on His mind]. 













###### 6 






He has declared _and_ shown to His people the power of His works in giving them the heritage of the nations [of Canaan]. 













###### 7 






The works of His hands are [absolute] truth and justice [faithful and right]; and all His decrees _and_ precepts are sure (fixed, established, and trustworthy). 













###### 8 






They stand fast _and_ are established forever and ever and are done in [absolute] truth and uprightness. 













###### 9 






He has sent redemption to His people; He has commanded His covenant to be forever; holy is His name, inspiring awe, reverence, _and_ godly fear. 













###### 10 






The reverent fear _and_ worship of the Lord is the beginning of [^a]Wisdom _and_ skill [the preceding and the first essential, the prerequisite and the alphabet]; a good understanding, wisdom, _and_ meaning have all those who do [the will of the Lord]. Their praise of Him endures forever.
