---
Aliases: [Psalms 15]
previous: ['Ps 14']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 16']
---
# Psalms 15

***














###### 1 






Lord, who shall dwell [temporarily] in Your tabernacle? Who shall dwell [permanently] on Your holy hill? 













###### 2 






He who walks _and_ lives uprightly _and_ blamelessly, who works rightness _and_ justice and speaks _and_ thinks the truth in his heart, 













###### 3 






He who does not slander with his tongue, nor does evil to his friend, nor takes up a reproach against his neighbor; 













###### 4 






In whose eyes a vile person is despised, but he who honors those who fear the Lord (who revere and worship Him); who swears to his own hurt and does not change; 













###### 5 






[He who] does not put out his money for [^a]interest [to one of his own people] and who will not take a bribe against the innocent. He who does these things shall never be moved. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 15:5 “Israel was originally not a mercantile people, and the law aimed at an equal diffusion of wealth, not at enriching some while others were poor. The spirit of the law still is obligatory—not to take advantage of a brother’s distress to lend at interest ruinous to him—but the letter of the law is abrogated, and a loan at moderate interest is often of great service to the poor. Hence, it is referred to by our Lord in parables, apparently as a lawful as well as recognized usage. (Matt. 25:27; Luke 19:23)” (A.R. Fausset, _Bible Encyclopedia and Dictionary_).
