---
Aliases: [Psalms 146]
previous: ['Ps 145']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 147']
---
# Psalms 146

***














###### 1 






Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!) Praise the Lord, O my soul! 













###### 2 






While I live will I praise the Lord; I will sing praises to my God while I have any being. 













###### 3 






Put not your trust in princes, in a son of man, in whom there is no help. 













###### 4 






When his breath leaves him, he returns to his earth; in that very day his [previous] thoughts, plans, _and_ purposes perish. 













###### 5 






Happy (blessed, fortunate, enviable) is he who has the God of [special revelation to] Jacob for his help, whose hope is in the Lord his God, 













###### 6 






Who made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, Who keeps truth _and_ is faithful forever, 













###### 7 






Who executes justice for the oppressed, Who gives food to the hungry. The Lord sets free the prisoners, 













###### 8 






The Lord opens the eyes of the blind, the Lord lifts up those who are bowed down, the Lord loves the [uncompromisingly] righteous (those upright in heart and in right standing with Him). 













###### 9 






The Lord protects _and_ preserves the strangers _and_ temporary residents, He upholds the fatherless and the widow _and_ sets them upright, but the way of the wicked He makes crooked (turns upside down and brings to ruin). 













###### 10 






The Lord shall reign forever, even Your God, O Zion, from generation to generation. Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!) ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
