---
Aliases: [Psalms 103]
previous: ['Ps 102']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 104']
---
# Psalms 103

***














###### 1 






Bless (affectionately, gratefully praise) the Lord, O my soul; and all that is [deepest] within me, bless His holy name! 













###### 2 






Bless (affectionately, gratefully praise) the Lord, O my soul, and forget not [one of] all His benefits-- 













###### 3 






Who forgives [every one of] all your iniquities, Who heals [each one of] all your diseases, 













###### 4 






Who redeems your life from the pit _and_ corruption, Who beautifies, dignifies, _and_ crowns you with loving-kindness and tender mercy; 













###### 5 






Who satisfies your mouth [your necessity and desire at your personal age and situation] with good so that your youth, renewed, is like the eagle's [strong, overcoming, soaring]! 













###### 6 






The Lord executes righteousness _and_ justice [not for me only, but] for all who are oppressed. 













###### 7 






He made known His ways [of righteousness and justice] to Moses, His acts to the children of Israel. 













###### 8 






The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and plenteous in mercy _and_ loving-kindness. 













###### 9 






He will not always chide _or_ be contending, neither will He keep His anger forever _or_ hold a grudge. 













###### 10 






He has not dealt with us after our sins nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. 













###### 11 






For as the heavens are high above the earth, so great are His mercy _and_ loving-kindness toward those who reverently _and_ worshipfully fear Him. 













###### 12 






As far as the east is from the west, so far has He removed our transgressions from us. 













###### 13 






As a father loves _and_ pities his children, so the Lord loves _and_ pities those who fear Him [with reverence, worship, and awe]. 













###### 14 






For He knows our frame, He [earnestly] remembers _and_ imprints [on His heart] that we are dust. 













###### 15 






As for man, his days are as grass; as a flower of the field, so he flourishes. 













###### 16 






For the wind passes over it and it is gone, and its place shall know it no more. 













###### 17 






But the mercy _and_ loving-kindness of the Lord are from everlasting to everlasting upon those who reverently _and_ worshipfully fear Him, and His righteousness is to children's children-- 













###### 18 






To such as keep His covenant [hearing, receiving, loving, and obeying it] and to those who [earnestly] remember His commandments to do them [imprinting them on their hearts]. 













###### 19 






The Lord has established His throne in the heavens, and His kingdom rules over all. 













###### 20 






Bless (affectionately, gratefully praise) the Lord, you His angels, you mighty ones who do His commandments, hearkening to the voice of His word. 













###### 21 






Bless (affectionately, gratefully praise) the Lord, all you His hosts, you His ministers who do His pleasure. 













###### 22 






Bless the Lord, all His works in all places of His dominion; bless (affectionately, gratefully praise) the Lord, O my soul! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
