---
Aliases: [Psalms 142]
previous: ['Ps 141']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 143']
---
# Psalms 142

***














###### 1 






I cry to the Lord with my voice; with my voice to the Lord do I make supplication. 













###### 2 






I pour out my complaint before Him; I tell before Him my trouble. 













###### 3 






When my spirit was overwhelmed _and_ fainted [throwing all its weight] upon me, then You knew my path. In the way where I walk they have hidden a snare for me. 













###### 4 






Look on the right hand [the point of attack] and see; for there is no man who knows me [to appear for me]. Refuge has failed me _and_ I have no way to flee; no man cares for my life _or_ my welfare. 













###### 5 






I cried to You, O Lord; I said, You are my refuge, my portion in the land of the living. 













###### 6 






Attend to my loud cry, for I am brought very low; deliver me from my persecutors, for they are stronger than I. 













###### 7 






Bring my life out of prison, that I may confess, praise, _and_ give thanks to Your name; the righteous will surround me _and_ crown themselves because of me, for You will deal bountifully with me. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
