---
Aliases: [Psalms 12]
previous: ['Ps 11']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 13']
---
# Psalms 12

***














###### 1 






Help, Lord! For principled _and_ godly people are here no more; faithfulness _and_ the faithful vanish from among the sons of men. 













###### 2 






To his neighbor each one speaks words without use _or_ worth _or_ truth; with flattering lips and double heart [deceitfully] they speak. 













###### 3 






May the Lord cut off all flattering lips _and_ the tongues that speak proud boasting, 













###### 4 






Those who say, With our tongues we prevail; our lips are our own [to command at our will]--who is lord _and_ master over us? 













###### 5 






Now will I arise, says the Lord, because the poor are oppressed, because of the groans of the needy; I will set him in safety _and_ in the salvation for which he pants. 













###### 6 






The words _and_ promises of the Lord are pure words, like silver refined in an earthen furnace, purified seven times over. 













###### 7 






You will keep them and preserve them, O Lord; You will guard _and_ keep us from this [evil] generation forever. 













###### 8 






The wicked walk _or_ prowl about on every side, as vileness is exalted [and baseness is rated high] among the sons of men. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
