---
Aliases: [Psalms 18]
previous: ['Ps 17']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 19']
---
# Psalms 18

***














###### 1 






I love You fervently _and_ devotedly, O Lord, my Strength. 













###### 2 






The Lord is my Rock, my Fortress, and my Deliverer; my God, my keen _and_ firm Strength in Whom I will trust _and_ take refuge, my Shield, and the Horn of my salvation, my High Tower. 













###### 3 






I will call upon the Lord, Who is to be praised; so shall I be saved from my enemies. 













###### 4 






The cords _or_ bands of death surrounded me, and the streams of ungodliness _and_ the torrents of ruin terrified me. 













###### 5 






The cords of Sheol (the place of the dead) surrounded me; the snares of death confronted _and_ came upon me. 













###### 6 






In my distress [when seemingly closed in] I called upon the Lord and cried to my God; He heard my voice out of His temple (heavenly dwelling place), and my cry came before Him, into His [very] ears. 













###### 7 






Then the earth quaked and rocked, the foundations also of the mountains trembled; they moved _and_ were shaken because He was indignant _and_ angry. 













###### 8 






There went up smoke from His nostrils; and lightning out of His mouth devoured; coals were kindled by it. 













###### 9 






He bowed the heavens also and came down; and thick darkness was under His feet. 













###### 10 






And He rode upon a cherub [a storm] and flew [swiftly]; yes, He sped on with the wings of the wind. 













###### 11 






He made darkness His secret hiding place; as His pavilion (His canopy) round about Him were dark waters _and_ thick clouds of the skies. 













###### 12 






Out of the brightness before Him there broke forth through His thick clouds hailstones and coals of fire. 













###### 13 






The Lord also thundered from the heavens, and the Most High uttered His voice, amid hailstones and coals of fire. 













###### 14 






And He sent out His arrows and scattered them; and He flashed forth lightnings and put them to rout. 













###### 15 






Then the beds of the sea appeared and the foundations of the world were laid bare at Your rebuke, O Lord, at the blast of the breath of Your nostrils. 













###### 16 






He reached from on high, He took me; He drew me out of many waters. 













###### 17 






He delivered me from my strong enemy and from those who hated _and_ abhorred me, for they were too strong for me. 













###### 18 






They confronted _and_ came upon me in the day of my calamity, but the Lord was my stay _and_ support. 













###### 19 






He brought me forth also into a large place; He was delivering me because He was pleased with me _and_ delighted in me. 













###### 20 






The Lord rewarded me according to my righteousness (my conscious integrity and sincerity with Him); according to the cleanness of my hands has He recompensed me. 













###### 21 






For I have kept the ways of the Lord and have not wickedly departed from my God. 













###### 22 






For all His ordinances were before me, and I put not away His statutes from me. 













###### 23 






I was upright before Him _and_ blameless with Him, ever [on guard] to keep myself free from my sin _and_ guilt. 













###### 24 






Therefore has the Lord recompensed me according to my righteousness (my uprightness and right standing with Him), according to the cleanness of my hands in His sight. 













###### 25 






With the kind _and_ merciful You will show Yourself kind _and_ merciful, with an upright man You will show Yourself upright, 













###### 26 






With the pure You will show Yourself pure, and with the perverse You will show Yourself contrary. 













###### 27 






For You deliver an afflicted _and_ humble people but will bring down those with haughty looks. 













###### 28 






For You cause my lamp to be lighted _and_ to shine; the Lord my God illumines my darkness. 













###### 29 






For by You I can run through a troop, and by my God I can leap over a wall. 













###### 30 






As for God, His way is perfect! The word of the Lord is tested _and_ tried; He is a shield to all those who take refuge _and_ put their trust in Him. 













###### 31 






For who is God except the Lord? Or who is the Rock save our God, 













###### 32 






The God who girds me with strength and makes my way perfect? 













###### 33 






He makes my feet like hinds' feet [able to stand firmly or make progress on the dangerous heights of testing and trouble]; He sets me securely upon my high places. 













###### 34 






He teaches my hands to war, so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze. 













###### 35 






You have also given me the shield of Your salvation, and Your right hand has held me up; Your gentleness _and_ condescension have made me great. 













###### 36 






You have given plenty of room for my steps under me, that my feet would not slip. 













###### 37 






I pursued my enemies and overtook them; neither did I turn again till they were consumed. 













###### 38 






I smote them so that they were not able to rise; they fell wounded under my feet. 













###### 39 






For You have girded me with strength for the battle; You have subdued under me and caused to bow down those who rose up against me. 













###### 40 






You have also made my enemies turn their backs to me, that I might cut off those who hate me. 













###### 41 






They cried [for help], but there was none to deliver--even unto the Lord, but He answered them not. 













###### 42 






Then I beat them small as the dust before the wind; I emptied them out as the dirt _and_ mire of the streets. 













###### 43 






You have delivered me from the strivings of the people; You made me the head of the nations; a people I had not known served me. 













###### 44 






As soon as they heard of me, they obeyed me; foreigners submitted themselves cringingly _and_ yielded feigned obedience to me. 













###### 45 






Foreigners lost heart and came trembling out of their caves _or_ strongholds. 













###### 46 






The Lord lives! Blessed be my Rock; and let the God of my salvation be exalted, 













###### 47 






The God Who avenges me and subdues peoples under me, 













###### 48 






Who delivers me from my enemies; yes, You lift me up above those who rise up against me; You deliver me from the man of violence. 













###### 49 






Therefore will I give thanks _and_ extol You, O Lord, among the nations, and sing praises to Your name. 













###### 50 






Great deliverances _and_ triumphs gives He to His king; and He shows mercy _and_ steadfast love to His anointed, to David and his offspring forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
