---
Aliases: [Psalms 140]
previous: ['Ps 139']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 141']
---
# Psalms 140

***














###### 1 






Deliver me, O Lord, from evil men; preserve me from violent men; 













###### 2 






They devise mischiefs in their heart; continually they gather together _and_ stir up wars. 













###### 3 






They sharpen their tongues like a serpent's; adders' poison is under their lips. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 4 






Keep me, O Lord, from the hands of the wicked; preserve me from the violent men who have purposed to thrust aside my steps. 













###### 5 






The proud have hidden a snare for me; they have spread cords as a net by the wayside, they have set traps for me. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 6 






I said to the Lord, You are my God; give ear to the voice of my supplications, O Lord. 













###### 7 






O God the Lord, the Strength of my salvation, You have covered my head in the day of battle. 













###### 8 






Grant not, O Lord, the desires of the wicked; further not their wicked plot _and_ device, lest they exalt themselves. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 9 






Those who are fencing me in raise their heads; may the mischief of their own lips _and_ the very things they desire for me come upon them. 













###### 10 






Let burning coals fall upon them; let them be cast into the fire, into floods of water _or_ deep water pits, from which they shall not rise. 













###### 11 






Let not a man of slanderous tongue be established in the earth; let evil hunt the violent man to overthrow him [let calamity follow his evildoings]. 













###### 12 






I know _and_ rest in confidence upon it that the Lord will maintain the cause of the afflicted, and will secure justice for the poor _and_ needy [of His believing children]. 













###### 13 






Surely the [uncompromisingly] righteous shall give thanks to Your name; the upright shall dwell in Your presence (before Your very face). ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
