---
Aliases: [Psalms 132]
previous: ['Ps 131']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 133']
---
# Psalms 132

***














###### 1 






Lord, [earnestly] remember to David's credit all his humiliations _and_ hardships _and_ endurance-- 













###### 2 






How he swore to the Lord and vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob: 













###### 3 






Surely I will not enter my dwelling house or get into my bed-- 













###### 4 






I will not permit my eyes to sleep _or_ my eyelids to slumber, 













###### 5 






Until I have found a place for the Lord, a habitation for the Mighty One of Jacob. 













###### 6 






Behold, at Ephratah we [first] heard of [the discovered ark]; we found it in the fields of the wood [at Kiriath-jearim]. 













###### 7 






Let us go into His tabernacle; let us worship at His footstool. 













###### 8 






Arise, O Lord, to Your resting-place, You and the ark [the symbol] of Your strength. 













###### 9 






Let Your priests be clothed with righteousness (right living and right standing with God); and let Your saints shout for joy! 













###### 10 






For Your servant David's sake, turn not away the face of Your anointed _and_ reject not Your own king. 













###### 11 






The Lord swore to David in truth; He will not turn back from it: One of the fruit of your body I will set upon your throne. 













###### 12 






If your children will keep My covenant and My testimony that I shall teach them, their children also shall sit upon your throne forever. 













###### 13 






For the Lord has chosen Zion, He has desired it for His habitation: 













###### 14 






This is My resting-place forever [says the Lord]; here will I dwell, for I have desired it. 













###### 15 






I will surely _and_ abundantly bless her provision; I will satisfy her poor with bread. 













###### 16 






Her priests also will I clothe with salvation, and her saints shall shout aloud for joy. 













###### 17 






There will I make a horn spring forth _and_ bud for David; I have ordained _and_ prepared a lamp for My anointed [fulfilling the promises of old]. 













###### 18 






His enemies will I clothe with shame, but upon himself shall his crown flourish. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 132:1 See Psalm 120 title footnote.
