---
Aliases: [Psalms 26]
previous: ['Ps 25']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 27']
---
# Psalms 26

***














###### 1 






Vindicate me, O Lord, for I have walked in my integrity; I have [expectantly] trusted in, leaned on, _and_ relied on the Lord without wavering _and_ I shall not slide. 













###### 2 






Examine me, O Lord, and prove me; test my heart and my mind. 













###### 3 






For Your loving-kindness is before my eyes, and I have walked in Your truth [faithfully]. 













###### 4 






I do not sit with false persons, nor fellowship with pretenders; 













###### 5 






I hate the company of evildoers and will not sit with the wicked. 













###### 6 






I will wash my hands in innocence, and go about Your altar, O Lord, 













###### 7 






That I may make the voice of thanksgiving heard and may tell of all Your wondrous works. 













###### 8 






Lord, I love the habitation of Your house, and the place where Your glory dwells. 













###### 9 






Gather me not with sinners _and_ sweep me not away [with them], nor my life with bloodthirsty men, 













###### 10 






In whose hands is wickedness, and their right hands are full of bribes. 













###### 11 






But as for me, I will walk in my integrity; redeem me and be merciful _and_ gracious to me. 













###### 12 






My foot stands on an even place; in the congregations will I bless the Lord. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
