---
Aliases: [Psalms 27]
previous: ['Ps 26']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 28']
---
# Psalms 27

***














###### 1 






The Lord is my Light and my Salvation--whom shall I fear _or_ dread? The Lord is the Refuge _and_ Stronghold of my life--of whom shall I be afraid? 













###### 2 






When the wicked, even my enemies and my foes, came upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell. 













###### 3 






Though a host encamp against me, my heart shall not fear; though war arise against me, [even then] in this will I be confident. 













###### 4 






One thing have I asked of the Lord, that will I seek, inquire for, _and_ [insistently] require: that I may dwell in the house of the Lord [in His presence] all the days of my life, to behold _and_ gaze upon the beauty [the sweet attractiveness and the delightful loveliness] of the Lord and to meditate, consider, _and_ inquire in His temple. 













###### 5 






For in the day of trouble He will hide me in His shelter; in the secret place of His tent will He hide me; He will set me high upon a rock. 













###### 6 






And now shall my head be lifted up above my enemies round about me; in His tent I will offer sacrifices _and_ shouting of joy; I will sing, yes, I will sing praises to the Lord. 













###### 7 






Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud; have mercy _and_ be gracious to me and answer me! 













###### 8 






You have said, Seek My face [inquire for and require My presence as your vital need]. My heart says to You, Your face (Your presence), Lord, will I seek, inquire for, _and_ require [of necessity and on the authority of Your Word]. 













###### 9 






Hide not Your face from me; turn not Your servant away in anger, You Who have been my help! Cast me not off, neither forsake me, O God of my salvation! 













###### 10 






Although my father and my mother have forsaken me, yet the Lord will take me up [adopt me as His child]. 













###### 11 






Teach me Your way, O Lord, and lead me in a plain _and_ even path because of my enemies [those who lie in wait for me]. 













###### 12 






Give me not up to the will of my adversaries, for false witnesses have risen up against me; they breathe out cruelty _and_ violence. 













###### 13 






[What, what would have become of me] had I not believed that I would see the Lord's goodness in the land of the living! 













###### 14 






Wait _and_ hope for _and_ expect the Lord; be brave _and_ of good courage and let your heart be stout _and_ enduring. Yes, wait for _and_ hope for _and_ expect the Lord. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
