---
Aliases: [Psalms 28]
previous: ['Ps 27']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 29']
---
# Psalms 28

***














###### 1 






Unto You do I cry, O Lord my Rock, be not deaf _and_ silent to me, lest, if You be silent to me, I become like those going down to the pit [the grave]. 













###### 2 






Hear the voice of my supplication as I cry to You for help, as I lift up my hands toward Your innermost sanctuary (the Holy of Holies). 













###### 3 






Drag me not away with the wicked, with the workers of iniquity, who speak peace with their neighbors, but malice _and_ mischief are in their hearts. 













###### 4 






Repay them according to their work and according to the wickedness of their doings; repay them according to the work of their hands; render to them what they deserve. 













###### 5 






Because they regard not the works of the Lord nor the operations of His hands, He will break them down and not rebuild them. 













###### 6 






Blessed be the Lord, because He has heard the voice of my supplications. 













###### 7 






The Lord is my Strength and my [impenetrable] Shield; my heart trusts in, relies on, _and_ confidently leans on Him, and I am helped; therefore my heart greatly rejoices, and with my song will I praise Him. 













###### 8 






The Lord is their [unyielding] Strength, and He is the Stronghold of salvation to [me] His anointed. 













###### 9 






Save Your people and bless Your heritage; nourish _and_ shepherd them and carry them forever. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
