---
Aliases: [Psalms 39]
previous: ['Ps 38']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 40']
---
# Psalms 39

***














###### 1 






I said, I will take heed _and_ guard my ways, that I may sin not with my tongue; I will muzzle my mouth as with a bridle while the wicked are before me. 













###### 2 






I was dumb with silence, I held my peace without profit and had no comfort away from good, while my distress was renewed. 













###### 3 






My heart was hot within me. While I was musing, the fire burned; then I spoke with my tongue: 













###### 4 






Lord, make me to know my end and [to appreciate] the measure of my days--what it is; let me know _and_ realize how frail I am [how transient is my stay here]. 













###### 5 






Behold, You have made my days as [short as] handbreadths, and my lifetime is as nothing in Your sight. Truly every man at his best is merely a breath! Selah [pause, and think calmly of that]! 













###### 6 






Surely every man walks to and fro--like a shadow in a pantomime; surely for futility _and_ emptiness he is in turmoil; each one heaps up riches, not knowing who will gather them. 













###### 7 






And now, Lord, what do I wait for _and_ expect? My hope _and_ expectation are in You. 













###### 8 






Deliver me from all my transgressions; make me not the scorn _and_ reproach of the [self-confident] fool! 













###### 9 






I am dumb, I open not my mouth, for it is You Who has done it. 













###### 10 






Remove Your stroke away from me; I am consumed by the conflict _and_ the blow of Your hand. 













###### 11 






When with rebukes You correct _and_ chasten man for sin, You waste his beauty like a moth _and_ what is dear to him consumes away; surely every man is a mere breath. Selah [pause, and think calmly of that]! 













###### 12 






Hear my prayer, O Lord, and give ear to my cry; hold not Your peace at my tears! For I am Your passing guest, a temporary resident, as all my fathers were. 













###### 13 






O look away from me _and_ spare me, that I may recover cheerfulness _and_ encouraging strength _and_ know gladness before I go and am no more! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
