---
Aliases: [Psalms 35]
previous: ['Ps 34']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 36']
---
# Psalms 35

***














###### 1 






Contend, O Lord, with those who contend with me; fight against those who fight against me! 













###### 2 






Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for my help! 













###### 3 






Draw out also the spear and javelin _and_ close up the way of those who pursue _and_ persecute me. Say to me, I am your deliverance! 













###### 4 






Let them be put to shame and dishonor who seek _and_ require my life; let them be turned back and confounded who plan my hurt! 













###### 5 






Let them be as chaff before the wind, with the [^a]Angel of the Lord driving them on! 













###### 6 






Let their way be through dark and slippery places, with the Angel of the Lord pursuing _and_ afflicting them. 













###### 7 






For without cause they hid for me their net; a pit of destruction without cause they dug for my life. 













###### 8 






Let destruction befall [my foe] unawares; let the net he hid for me catch him; let him fall into that very destruction. 













###### 9 






Then I shall be joyful in the Lord; I shall rejoice in His deliverance. 













###### 10 






All my bones shall say, Lord, who is like You, You Who deliver the poor _and_ the afflicted from him who is too strong for him, yes, the poor and the needy from him who snatches away his goods? 













###### 11 






Malicious _and_ unrighteous witnesses rise up; they ask me of things that I know not. 













###### 12 






They reward me evil for good to my personal bereavement. 













###### 13 






But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth; I afflicted myself with fasting, and I prayed with head bowed on my breast. 













###### 14 






I behaved as if grieving for my friend _or_ my brother; I bowed down in sorrow, as one who bewails his mother. 













###### 15 






But in my stumbling _and_ limping they rejoiced and gathered together [against me]; the smiters (slanderers and revilers) gathered against me, and I knew them not; they ceased not to slander _and_ revile me. 













###### 16 






Like profane mockers at feasts [making sport for the price of a cake] they gnashed at me with their teeth. 













###### 17 






Lord, how long will You look on [without action]? Rescue my life from their destructions, my dear _and_ only life from the lions! 













###### 18 






I will give You thanks in the great assembly; I will praise You among a mighty throng. 













###### 19 






Let not those who are wrongfully my foes rejoice over me; neither let them wink with the eye who hate me without cause. 













###### 20 






For they do not speak peace, but they devise deceitful matters against those who are quiet in the land. 













###### 21 






Yes, they open their mouths wide against me; they say, Aha! Aha! Our eyes have seen it! 













###### 22 






You have seen this, O Lord; keep not silence! O Lord, be not far from me! 













###### 23 






Arouse Yourself, awake to the justice due me, even to my cause, my God and my Lord! 













###### 24 






Judge _and_ vindicate me, O Lord my God, according to Your righteousness (Your rightness and justice); and let [my foes] not rejoice over me! 













###### 25 






Let them not say in their hearts, Aha, that is what we wanted! Let them not say, We have swallowed him up _and_ utterly destroyed him. 













###### 26 






Let them be put to shame and confusion together who rejoice at my calamity! Let them be clothed with shame and dishonor who magnify _and_ exalt themselves over me! 













###### 27 






Let those who favor my righteous cause _and_ have pleasure in my uprightness shout for joy and be glad and say continually, Let the Lord be magnified, Who takes pleasure in the prosperity of His servant. 













###### 28 






And my tongue shall talk of Your righteousness, rightness, _and_ justice, and of [my reasons for] Your praise all the day long. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 35:5 See footnote on Gen. 16:7.
