---
Aliases: [Psalms 37]
previous: ['Ps 36']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 38']
---
# Psalms 37

***














###### 1 






Fret not yourself because of evildoers, neither be envious against those who work unrighteousness (that which is not upright or in right standing with God). 













###### 2 






For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb. 













###### 3 






Trust (lean on, rely on, and be confident) in the Lord and do good; so shall you dwell in the land and feed surely on His faithfulness, _and_ truly you shall be fed. 













###### 4 






Delight yourself also in the Lord, and He will give you the desires _and_ secret petitions of your heart. 













###### 5 






Commit your way to the Lord [roll and repose each care of your load on Him]; trust (lean on, rely on, and be confident) also in Him and He will bring it to pass. 













###### 6 






And He will make your uprightness _and_ right standing with God go forth as the light, and your justice _and_ right as [the shining sun of] the noonday. 













###### 7 






Be still _and_ rest in the Lord; wait for Him _and_ patiently lean yourself upon Him; fret not yourself because of him who prospers in his way, because of the man who brings wicked devices to pass. 













###### 8 






Cease from anger and forsake wrath; fret not yourself--it tends only to evildoing. 













###### 9 






For evildoers shall be cut off, but those who wait _and_ hope _and_ look for the Lord [in the end] shall inherit the earth. 













###### 10 






For yet a little while, and the evildoers will be no more; though you look with care where they used to be, they will not be found. 













###### 11 






But the meek [in the end] shall inherit the earth and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace. 













###### 12 






The wicked plot against the [uncompromisingly] righteous (the upright in right standing with God); they gnash at them with their teeth. 













###### 13 






The Lord laughs at [the wicked], for He sees that their own day [of defeat] is coming. 













###### 14 






The wicked draw the sword and bend their bows to cast down the poor and needy, to slay those who walk uprightly (blameless in conduct and in conversation). 













###### 15 






The swords [of the wicked] shall enter their own hearts, and their bows shall be broken. 













###### 16 






Better is the little that the [uncompromisingly] righteous have than the abundance [of possessions] of many who are wrong _and_ wicked. 













###### 17 






For the arms of the wicked shall be broken, but the Lord upholds the [consistently] righteous. 













###### 18 






The Lord knows the days of the upright _and_ blameless, and their heritage will abide forever. 













###### 19 






They shall not be put to shame in the time of evil; and in the days of famine they shall be satisfied. 













###### 20 






But the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of the Lord shall be as the fat of lambs [that is consumed in smoke] _and_ as the glory of the pastures. They shall vanish; like smoke shall they consume away. 













###### 21 






The wicked borrow and pay not again [for they may be unable], but the [uncompromisingly] righteous deal kindly and give [for they are able]. 













###### 22 






For such as are blessed of God shall [in the end] inherit the earth, but they that are cursed of Him shall be cut off. 













###### 23 






The steps of a [good] man are directed _and_ established by the Lord when He delights in his way [and He busies Himself with his every step]. 













###### 24 






Though he falls, he shall not be utterly cast down, for the Lord grasps his hand in support _and_ upholds him. 













###### 25 






I have been young and now am old, yet have I not seen the [uncompromisingly] righteous forsaken or their seed begging bread. 













###### 26 






All day long they are merciful _and_ deal graciously; they lend, and their offspring are blessed. 













###### 27 






Depart from evil and do good; and you will dwell forever [securely]. 













###### 28 






For the Lord delights in justice and forsakes not His saints; they are preserved forever, but the offspring of the wicked [in time] shall be cut off. 













###### 29 






[Then] the [consistently] righteous shall inherit the land and dwell upon it forever. 













###### 30 






The mouth of the [uncompromisingly] righteous utters wisdom, and his tongue speaks with justice. 













###### 31 






The law of his God is in his heart; none of his steps shall slide. 













###### 32 






The wicked lie in wait for the [uncompromisingly] righteous and seek to put them to death. 













###### 33 






The Lord will not leave them in their hands, or [suffer them to] condemn them when they are judged. 













###### 34 






Wait for _and_ expect the Lord and keep _and_ heed His way, and He will exalt you to inherit the land; [in the end] when the wicked are cut off, you shall see it. 













###### 35 






I have seen a wicked man in great power and spreading himself like a green tree in its native soil, 













###### 36 






Yet he passed away, and behold, he was not; yes, I sought _and_ inquired for him, but he could not be found. 













###### 37 






Mark the blameless man and behold the upright, for there is a happy end for the man of peace. 













###### 38 






As for transgressors, they shall be destroyed together; in the end the wicked shall be cut off. 













###### 39 






But the salvation of the [consistently] righteous is of the Lord; He is their Refuge _and_ secure Stronghold in the time of trouble. 













###### 40 






And the Lord helps them and delivers them; He delivers them from the wicked and saves them, because they trust _and_ take refuge in Him.
