---
Aliases: [Psalms 38]
previous: ['Ps 37']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 39']
---
# Psalms 38

***














###### 1 






O Lord, rebuke me not in Your wrath, neither chasten me in Your hot displeasure. 













###### 2 






For Your arrows have sunk into me _and_ stick fast, and Your hand has come down upon me _and_ pressed me sorely. 













###### 3 






There is no soundness in my flesh because of Your indignation; neither is there any health _or_ rest in my bones because of my sin. 













###### 4 






For my iniquities have gone over my head [like waves of a flood]; as a heavy burden they weigh too much for me. 













###### 5 






My wounds are loathsome and corrupt because of my foolishness. 













###### 6 






I am bent and bowed down greatly; I go about mourning all the day long. 













###### 7 






For my loins are filled with burning; and there is no soundness in my flesh. 













###### 8 






I am faint and sorely bruised [deadly cold and quite worn out]; I groan by reason of the disquiet _and_ moaning of my heart. 













###### 9 






Lord, all my desire is before You; and my sighing is not hidden from You. 













###### 10 






My heart throbs, my strength fails me; as for the light of my eyes, it also is gone from me. 













###### 11 






My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my plague; and my neighbors _and_ my near ones stand afar off. 













###### 12 






They also that seek _and_ demand my life lay snares for me, and they that seek _and_ require my hurt speak crafty _and_ mischievous things; they meditate treachery _and_ deceit all the day long. 













###### 13 






But I, like a deaf man, hear not; and I am like a dumb man who opens not his mouth. 













###### 14 






Yes, I have become like a man who hears not, in whose mouth are no arguments _or_ replies. 













###### 15 






For in You, O Lord, do I hope; You will answer, O Lord my God. 













###### 16 






For I pray, Let them not rejoice over me, who when my foot slips boast against me. 













###### 17 






For I am ready to halt _and_ fall; my pain _and_ sorrow are continually before me. 













###### 18 






For I do confess my guilt _and_ iniquity; I am filled with sorrow for my sin. 













###### 19 






But my enemies are vigorous _and_ strong, and those who hate me wrongfully are multiplied. 













###### 20 






They also that render evil for good are adversaries to me, because I follow the thing that is good. 













###### 21 






Forsake me not, O Lord; O my God, be not far from me. 













###### 22 






Make haste to help me, O Lord, my Salvation. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
