---
Aliases: [Psalms 41]
previous: ['Ps 40']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 42']
---
# Psalms 41

***














###### 1 






Blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) is he who considers the weak _and_ the poor; the Lord will deliver him in the time of evil _and_ trouble. 













###### 2 






The Lord will protect him and keep him alive; he shall be called blessed in the land; and You will not deliver him to the will of his enemies. 













###### 3 






The Lord will sustain, refresh, _and_ strengthen him on his bed of languishing; all his bed You [O Lord] will turn, change, _and_ transform in his illness. 













###### 4 






I said, Lord, be merciful _and_ gracious to me; heal my inner self, for I have sinned against You. 













###### 5 






My enemies speak evil of me, [saying], When will he die and his name perish? 













###### 6 






And when one comes to see me, he speaks falsehood _and_ empty words, while his heart gathers mischievous gossip [against me]; when he goes away, he tells it abroad. 













###### 7 






All who hate me whisper together about me; against me do they devise my hurt [imagining the worst for me]. 













###### 8 






An evil disease, say they, is poured out upon him _and_ cleaves fast to him; and now that he is bedfast, he will not rise up again. 













###### 9 






Even my own familiar friend, in whom I trusted (relied on and was confident), who ate of my bread, has lifted up his heel against me. 













###### 10 






But You, O Lord, be merciful _and_ gracious to me, and raise me up, that I may requite them. 













###### 11 






By this I know that You favor _and_ delight in me, because my enemy does not triumph over me. 













###### 12 






And as for me, You have upheld me in my integrity and set me in Your presence forever. 













###### 13 






Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, from everlasting and to everlasting [from this age to the next, and forever]! Amen and Amen (so be it). ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
