---
Aliases: [Psalms 40]
previous: ['Ps 39']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 41']
---
# Psalms 40

***














###### 1 






I waited patiently _and_ expectantly for the Lord; and He inclined to me and heard my cry. 













###### 2 






He drew me up out of a horrible pit [a pit of tumult and of destruction], out of the miry clay (froth and slime), and set my feet upon a rock, steadying my steps _and_ establishing my goings. 













###### 3 






And He has put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God. Many shall see and fear (revere and worship) and put their trust _and_ confident reliance in the Lord. 













###### 4 






Blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) is the man who makes the Lord his refuge _and_ trust, and turns not to the proud or to followers of false gods. 













###### 5 






Many, O Lord my God, are the wonderful works which You have done, and Your thoughts toward us; no one can compare with You! If I should declare and speak of them, they are too many to be numbered. 













###### 6 






Sacrifice and offering You do not desire, _nor_ have You delight in them; You have given me the capacity to hear _and_ obey [Your law, a more valuable service than] burnt offerings and sin offerings [which] You do not require. 













###### 7 






Then said I, Behold, I come; in the volume of the book it is written of me; 













###### 8 






I delight to do Your will, O my God; yes, Your law is within my heart. 













###### 9 






I have proclaimed glad tidings of righteousness in the great assembly [tidings of uprightness and right standing with God]. Behold, I have not restrained my lips, as You know, O Lord. 













###### 10 






I have not concealed Your righteousness within my heart; I have proclaimed Your faithfulness and Your salvation. I have not hid away Your steadfast love and Your truth from the great assembly. 













###### 11 






Withhold not Your tender mercy from me, O Lord; let Your loving-kindness and Your truth continually preserve me! 













###### 12 






For innumerable evils have compassed me about; my iniquities have taken such hold on me that I am not able to look up. They are more than the hairs of my head, and my heart has failed me _and_ forsaken me. 













###### 13 






Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me; O Lord, make haste to help me! 













###### 14 






Let them be put to shame and confounded together who seek _and_ require my life to destroy it; let them be driven backward and brought to dishonor who wish me evil _and_ delight in my hurt! 













###### 15 






Let them be desolate by reason of their shame who say to me, Aha, aha! 













###### 16 






Let all those that seek _and_ require You rejoice and be glad in You; let such as love Your salvation say continually, The Lord be magnified! 













###### 17 






[As for me] I am poor and needy, yet the Lord takes thought _and_ plans for me. You are my Help and my Deliverer. O my God, do not tarry!
