---
Aliases: [Psalms 45]
previous: ['Ps 44']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 46']
---
# Psalms 45

***














###### 1 






My heart overflows with a goodly theme; I address my psalm to a King. My tongue is like the pen of a ready writer. 













###### 2 






You are fairer than the children of men; graciousness is poured upon Your lips; therefore God has blessed You forever. 













###### 3 






Gird Your sword upon Your thigh, O mighty One, in Your glory and Your majesty! 













###### 4 






And in Your majesty ride on triumphantly for the cause of truth, humility, _and_ righteousness (uprightness and right standing with God); and let Your right hand guide You to tremendous things. 













###### 5 






Your arrows are sharp; the peoples fall under You; Your darts pierce the hearts of the King's enemies. 













###### 6 






Your throne, O God, is forever and ever; the scepter of righteousness is the scepter of Your kingdom. 













###### 7 






You love righteousness, uprightness, _and_ right standing with God and hate wickedness; therefore God, Your God, has anointed You with the oil of gladness above Your fellows. 













###### 8 






Your garments are all fragrant with myrrh, aloes, _and_ cassia; stringed instruments make You glad. 













###### 9 






Kings' daughters are among Your honorable women; at Your right hand stands the queen in gold of Ophir. 













###### 10 






Hear, O daughter, consider, submit, _and_ consent to my instruction: forget also your own people and your father's house; 













###### 11 






So will the King desire your beauty; because He is your Lord, be submissive _and_ reverence _and_ honor Him. 













###### 12 






And, O daughter of Tyre, the richest of the people shall entreat your favor with a gift. 













###### 13 






The King's daughter in the inner part [of the palace] is all glorious; her clothing is inwrought with gold. 













###### 14 






She shall be brought to the King in raiment of needlework; with the virgins, her companions that follow her, she shall be brought to You. 













###### 15 






With gladness and rejoicing will they be brought; they will enter into the King's palace. 













###### 16 






Instead of Your fathers shall be Your sons, whom You will make princes in all the land. 













###### 17 






I will make Your name to be remembered in all generations; therefore shall the people praise and give You thanks forever and ever.
