---
Aliases: [Psalms 44]
previous: ['Ps 43']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 45']
---
# Psalms 44

***














###### 1 






We have heard with our ears, O God; our fathers have told us [what] work You did in their days, in the days of old. 













###### 2 






You drove out the nations with Your hand _and_ it was Your power that gave [Israel] a home by rooting out the [heathen] peoples, but [Israel] You spread out. 













###### 3 






For they got not the land [of Canaan] in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm save them; but Your right hand and Your arm and the light of Your countenance [did it], because You were favorable toward _and_ did delight in them. 













###### 4 






You are my King, O God; command victories _and_ deliverance for Jacob (Israel). 













###### 5 






Through You shall we push down our enemies; through Your name shall we tread them under who rise up against us. 













###### 6 






For I will not trust in _and_ lean on my bow, neither shall my sword save me. 













###### 7 






But You have saved us from our foes and have put them to shame who hate us. 













###### 8 






In God we have made our boast all the day long, and we will give thanks to Your name forever. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 9 






But now You have cast us off and brought us to dishonor, and You go not out with our armies. 













###### 10 






You make us to turn back from the enemy, and they who hate us take spoil for themselves. 













###### 11 






You have made us like sheep intended for mutton and have scattered us in exile among the nations. 













###### 12 






You sell Your people for nothing, and have not increased Your wealth by their price. 













###### 13 






You have made us the taunt of our neighbors, a scoffing and a derision to those who are round about us. 













###### 14 






You make us a byword among the nations, a shaking of the heads among the people. 













###### 15 






My dishonor is before me all day long, and shame has covered my face 













###### 16 






At the words of the taunter and reviler, by reason of the enemy and the revengeful. 













###### 17 






All this is come upon us, yet have we not forgotten You, neither have we been false to Your covenant [which You made with our fathers]. 













###### 18 






Our hearts are not turned back, neither have our steps declined from Your path, 













###### 19 






Though You have distressingly broken us in the place of jackals and covered us with deep darkness, even with the shadow of death. 













###### 20 






If we had forgotten the name of our God or stretched out our hands to a strange god, 













###### 21 






Would not God discover this? For He knows the secrets of the heart. 













###### 22 






No, but for Your sake we are killed all the day long; we are accounted as sheep for the slaughter. 













###### 23 






Awake! Why do You sleep, O Lord? Arouse Yourself, cast us not off forever! 













###### 24 






Why do You hide Your face _and_ forget our affliction and our oppression? 













###### 25 






For our lives are bowed down to the dust; our bodies cleave to the ground. 













###### 26 






Rise up! Come to our help, and deliver us for Your mercy's sake _and_ because of Your steadfast love! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
