---
Aliases: [Psalms 47]
previous: ['Ps 46']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 48']
---
# Psalms 47

***














###### 1 






O clap your hands, all you peoples! Shout to God with the voice of triumph _and_ songs of joy! 













###### 2 






For the Lord Most High excites terror, awe, _and_ dread; He is a great King over all the earth. 













###### 3 






He subdued peoples under us, and nations under our feet. 













###### 4 






He chose our inheritance for us, the glory _and_ pride of Jacob, whom He loves. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 5 






God has ascended amid shouting, the Lord with the sound of a trumpet. 













###### 6 






Sing praises to God, sing praises! Sing praises to our King, sing praises! 













###### 7 






For God is the King of all the earth; sing praises in a skillful psalm _and_ with understanding. 













###### 8 






God reigns over the nations; God sits upon His holy throne. 













###### 9 






The princes _and_ nobles of the peoples are gathered together, a [united] people for the God of Abraham, for the shields of the earth belong to God; He is highly exalted. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
