---
Aliases: [Psalms 46]
previous: ['Ps 45']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 47']
---
# Psalms 46

***














###### 1 






God is our Refuge and Strength [mighty _and_ impenetrable to temptation], a very present _and_ well-proved help in trouble. 













###### 2 






Therefore we will not fear, though the earth should change and though the mountains be shaken into the midst of the seas, 













###### 3 






Though its waters roar and foam, though the mountains tremble at its swelling _and_ tumult. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 4 






There is a river whose streams shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the Most High. 













###### 5 






God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved; God will help her right early [at the dawn of the morning]. 













###### 6 






The nations raged, the kingdoms tottered _and_ were moved; He uttered His voice, the earth melted. 













###### 7 






The Lord of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our Refuge (our Fortress and High Tower). Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 8 






Come, behold the works of the Lord, Who has wrought desolations _and_ wonders in the earth. 













###### 9 






He makes wars to cease to the end of the earth; He breaks the bow into pieces and snaps the spear in two; He burns the chariots in the fire. 













###### 10 






Let be _and_ be still, and know (recognize and understand) that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations! I will be exalted in the earth! 













###### 11 






The Lord of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our Refuge (our High Tower and Stronghold). Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!
