---
Aliases: [Psalms 57]
previous: ['Ps 56']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 58']
---
# Psalms 57

***














###### 1 






Be merciful _and_ gracious to me, O God, be merciful _and_ gracious to me, for my soul takes refuge _and_ finds shelter _and_ confidence in You; yes, in the shadow of Your wings will I take refuge _and_ be confident until calamities _and_ destructive storms are passed. 













###### 2 






I will cry to God Most High, Who performs on my behalf _and_ rewards me [Who brings to pass His purposes for me and surely completes them]! 













###### 3 






He will send from heaven and save me from the slanders _and_ reproaches of him who would trample me down _or_ swallow me up, _and_ He will put him to shame. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! God will send forth His mercy _and_ loving-kindness _and_ His truth _and_ faithfulness. 













###### 4 






My life is among lions; I must lie among those who are aflame--the sons of men whose teeth are spears and arrows, their tongues sharp swords. 













###### 5 






Be exalted, O God, above the heavens! Let Your glory be over all the earth! 













###### 6 






They set a net for my steps; my very life was bowed down. They dug a pit in my way; into the midst of it they themselves have fallen. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 7 






My heart is fixed, O God, my heart is steadfast _and_ confident! I will sing and make melody. 













###### 8 






Awake, my glory (my inner self); awake, harp and lyre! I will awake right early [I will awaken the dawn]! 













###### 9 






I will praise _and_ give thanks to You, O Lord, among the peoples; I will sing praises to You among the nations. 













###### 10 






For Your mercy _and_ loving-kindness are great, reaching to the heavens, and Your truth _and_ faithfulness to the clouds. 













###### 11 






Be exalted, O God, above the heavens; let Your glory be over all the earth. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
