---
Aliases: [Psalms 52]
previous: ['Ps 51']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 53']
---
# Psalms 52

***














###### 1 






Why boast you of mischief done against the loving-kindness of God [and the godly], O mighty [sinful] man, day after day? 













###### 2 






Your tongue devises wickedness; it is like a sharp razor, working deceitfully. 













###### 3 






You love evil more than good, and lying rather than to speak righteousness, justice, _and_ right. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 4 






You love all destroying _and_ devouring words, O deceitful tongue. 













###### 5 






God will likewise break you down _and_ destroy you forever; He will lay hold of you and pluck you out of your tent and uproot you from the land of the living. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 6 






The [uncompromisingly] righteous also shall see [it] and be in reverent fear _and_ awe, but about you they will [scoffingly] laugh, saying, 













###### 7 






See, this is the man who made not God his strength (his stronghold and high tower) but trusted in _and_ confidently relied on the abundance of his riches, seeking refuge _and_ security for himself through his wickedness. 













###### 8 






But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God; I trust in _and_ confidently rely on the loving-kindness _and_ the mercy of God forever and ever. 













###### 9 






I will thank You _and_ confide in You forever, because You have done it [delivered me and kept me safe]. I will wait on, hope in _and_ expect in Your name, for it is good, in the presence of Your saints (Your kind and pious ones).
