---
Aliases: [Psalms 56]
previous: ['Ps 55']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 57']
---
# Psalms 56

***














###### 1 






Be merciful _and_ gracious to me, O God, for man would trample me _or_ devour me; all the day long the adversary oppresses me. 













###### 2 






They that lie in wait for me would swallow me up _or_ trample me all day long, for they are many who fight against me, O Most High! 













###### 3 






What time I am afraid, I will have confidence in _and_ put my trust _and_ reliance in You. 













###### 4 






By [the help of] God I will praise His word; on God I lean, rely, _and_ confidently put my trust; I will not fear. What can man, who is flesh, do to me? 













###### 5 






All day long they twist my words _and_ trouble my affairs; all their thoughts are against me for evil _and_ my hurt. 













###### 6 






They gather themselves together, they hide themselves, they watch my steps, even as they have [expectantly] waited for my life. 













###### 7 






They think to escape with iniquity, _and_ shall they? In Your indignation bring down the peoples, O God. 













###### 8 






You number _and_ record my wanderings; put my tears into Your bottle--are they not in Your book? 













###### 9 






Then shall my enemies turn back in the day that I cry out; this I know, for God is for me. 













###### 10 






In God, Whose word I praise, in the Lord, Whose word I praise, 













###### 11 






In God have I put my trust _and_ confident reliance; I will not be afraid. What can man do to me? 













###### 12 






Your vows are upon me, O God; I will render praise to You _and_ give You thank offerings. 













###### 13 






For You have delivered my life from death, yes, and my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light of life _and_ of the living.
