---
Aliases: [Psalms 51]
previous: ['Ps 50']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 52']
---
# Psalms 51

***














###### 1 






Have mercy upon me, O God, according to Your steadfast love; according to the multitude of Your tender mercy _and_ loving-kindness blot out my transgressions. 













###### 2 






Wash me thoroughly [and repeatedly] from my iniquity _and_ guilt and cleanse me _and_ make me wholly pure from my sin! 













###### 3 






For I am conscious of my transgressions _and_ I acknowledge them; my sin is ever before me. 













###### 4 






Against You, You only, have I sinned and done that which is evil in Your sight, so that You are justified in Your sentence and faultless in Your judgment. 













###### 5 






Behold, I was brought forth in [a state of] iniquity; my mother was sinful who conceived me [and I too am sinful]. 













###### 6 






Behold, You desire truth in the inner being; make me therefore to know wisdom in my inmost heart. 













###### 7 






Purify me with hyssop, and I shall be clean [ceremonially]; wash me, and I shall [in reality] be whiter than snow. 













###### 8 






Make me to hear joy and gladness _and_ be satisfied; let the bones which You have broken rejoice. 













###### 9 






Hide Your face from my sins and blot out all my guilt _and_ iniquities. 













###### 10 






Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right, persevering, _and_ steadfast spirit within me. 













###### 11 






Cast me not away from Your presence and take not Your Holy Spirit from me. 













###### 12 






Restore to me the joy of Your salvation and uphold me with a willing spirit. 













###### 13 






Then will I teach transgressors Your ways, and sinners shall be converted _and_ return to You. 













###### 14 






Deliver me from bloodguiltiness _and_ death, O God, the God of my salvation, _and_ my tongue shall sing aloud of Your righteousness (Your rightness and Your justice). 













###### 15 






O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth shall show forth Your praise. 













###### 16 






For You delight not in sacrifice, or else would I give it; You find no pleasure in burnt offering. 













###### 17 






My sacrifice [the sacrifice acceptable] to God is a broken spirit; a broken and a contrite heart [broken down with sorrow for sin and humbly and thoroughly penitent], such, O God, You will not despise. 













###### 18 






Do good in Your good pleasure to Zion; rebuild the walls of Jerusalem. 













###### 19 






Then will You delight in the sacrifices of righteousness, justice, _and_ right, with burnt offering and whole burnt offering; then bullocks will be offered upon Your altar. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
