---
Aliases: [Psalms 59]
previous: ['Ps 58']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 60']
---
# Psalms 59

***














###### 1 






Deliver me from my enemies, O my God; defend _and_ protect me from those who rise up against me. 













###### 2 






Deliver me from _and_ lift me above those who work evil and save me from bloodthirsty men. 













###### 3 






For, behold, they lie in wait for my life; fierce _and_ mighty men are banding together against me, not for my transgression nor for any sin of mine, O Lord. 













###### 4 






They run and prepare themselves, though there is no fault in me; rouse Yourself [O Lord] to meet _and_ help me, and see! 













###### 5 






You, O Lord God of hosts, the God of Israel, arise to visit all the nations; spare none _and_ be not merciful to any who treacherously plot evil. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 6 






They return at evening, they howl _and_ snarl like dogs, and go [prowling] about the city. 













###### 7 






Behold, they belch out [insults] with their mouths; swords [of sarcasm, ridicule, slander, and lies] are in their lips, for who, they think, hears us? 













###### 8 






But You, O Lord, will laugh at them [in scorn]; You will hold all the nations in derision. 













###### 9 






O my Strength, I will watch _and_ give heed to You _and_ sing praises; for God is my Defense (my Protector and High Tower). 













###### 10 






My God in His mercy _and_ steadfast love will meet me; God will let me look [triumphantly] on my enemies (those who lie in wait for me). 













###### 11 






Slay them not, lest my people forget; scatter them by Your power _and_ make them wander to and fro, and bring them down, O Lord our Shield! 













###### 12 






For the sin of their mouths and the words of their lips, let them even be trapped _and_ taken in their pride, and for the cursing and lying which they utter. 













###### 13 






Consume them in wrath, consume them so that they shall be no more; and let them know unto the ends of the earth that God rules over Jacob (Israel). Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 14 






And at evening let them return; let them howl _and_ snarl like dogs, and go prowling about the city. 













###### 15 






Let them wander up and down for food and tarry all night if they are not satisfied (not getting their fill). 













###### 16 






But I will sing of Your mighty strength _and_ power; yes, I will sing aloud of Your mercy _and_ loving-kindness in the morning; for You have been to me a defense (a fortress and a high tower) and a refuge in the day of my distress. 













###### 17 






Unto You, O my Strength, I will sing praises; for God is my Defense, my Fortress, _and_ High Tower, the God Who shows me mercy _and_ steadfast love. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
