---
Aliases: [Psalms 53]
previous: ['Ps 52']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 54']
---
# Psalms 53

***














###### 1 






The [empty-headed] fool has said in his heart, There is no God. Corrupt _and_ evil are they, and doing abominable iniquity; there is none who does good. 













###### 2 






God looked down from heaven upon the children of men to see if there were any who understood, who sought (inquired after and desperately required) God. 













###### 3 






Every one of them has gone back [backslidden and fallen away]; they have altogether become filthy _and_ corrupt; there is none who does good, no, not one. 













###### 4 






Have those who work evil no knowledge (no understanding)? They eat up My people as they eat bread; they do not call upon God. 













###### 5 






There they are, in terror _and_ dread, where there was [and had been] no terror _and_ dread! For God has scattered the bones of him who encamps against you; you have put them to shame, because God has rejected them. 













###### 6 






Oh, that the salvation _and_ deliverance of Israel would come out of Zion! When God restores the fortunes of His people, then will Jacob rejoice and Israel be glad. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
