---
Aliases: [Psalms 60]
previous: ['Ps 59']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 61']
---
# Psalms 60

***














###### 1 






O God, You have rejected us _and_ cast us off, broken down [our defenses], _and_ scattered us; You have been angry--O restore us _and_ turn Yourself to us again! 













###### 2 






You have made the land to quake _and_ tremble, You have rent it [open]; repair its breaches, for it shakes _and_ totters. 













###### 3 






You have made Your people suffer hard things; You have given us to drink wine that makes us reel _and_ be dazed. 













###### 4 






[But now] You have set up a banner for those who fear _and_ worshipfully revere You [to which they may flee from the bow], a standard displayed because of the truth. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 5 






That Your beloved ones may be delivered, save with Your right hand and answer us [or me]. 













###### 6 






God has spoken in His holiness [in His promises]: I will rejoice, I will divide and portion out [the land] Shechem and the Valley of Succoth [west to east]. 













###### 7 






Gilead is Mine, and Manasseh is Mine; Ephraim also is My helmet (the defense of My head); Judah is My scepter _and_ My lawgiver. 













###### 8 






Moab is My washpot [reduced to vilest servitude]; upon Edom I cast My shoe in triumph; over Philistia I raise the shout of victory. 













###### 9 






Who will bring me [David] into the strong city [of Petra]? Who will lead me into Edom? 













###### 10 






Have You not rejected us, O God? And will You not go forth, O God, with our armies? 













###### 11 






O give us help against the adversary, for vain (ineffectual and to no purpose) is the help or salvation of man. 













###### 12 






Through God we shall do valiantly, for He it is Who shall tread down our adversaries. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
