---
Aliases: [Psalms 62]
previous: ['Ps 61']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 63']
---
# Psalms 62

***














###### 1 






For God alone my soul waits in silence; from Him comes my salvation. 













###### 2 






He only is my Rock and my Salvation, my Defense _and_ my Fortress, I shall not be greatly moved. 













###### 3 






How long will you set upon a man that you may slay him, all of you, like a leaning wall, like a tottering fence? 













###### 4 






They only consult to cast him down from his height [to dishonor him]; they delight in lies. They bless with their mouths, but they curse inwardly. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 5 






My soul, wait only upon God _and_ silently submit to Him; for my hope _and_ expectation are from Him. 













###### 6 






He only is my Rock and my Salvation; He is my Defense _and_ my Fortress, I shall not be moved. 













###### 7 






With God rests my salvation and my glory; He is my Rock of unyielding strength _and_ impenetrable hardness, and my refuge is in God! 













###### 8 






Trust in, lean on, rely on, _and_ have confidence in Him at all times, you people; pour out your hearts before Him. God is a refuge for us (a fortress and a high tower). Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 9 






Men of low degree [in the social scale] are emptiness (futility, a breath) _and_ men of high degree [in the same scale] are a lie _and_ a delusion. In the balances they go up; they are together lighter than a breath. 













###### 10 






Trust not in _and_ rely confidently not on extortion _and_ oppression, and do not vainly hope in robbery; if riches increase, set not your heart on them. 













###### 11 






God has spoken once, twice have I heard this: that power belongs to God. 













###### 12 






Also to You, O Lord, belong mercy _and_ loving-kindness, for You render to every man according to his work. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
