---
Aliases: [Psalms 73]
previous: ['Ps 72']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 74']
---
# Psalms 73

***














###### 1 






Truly God is [only] good to Israel, even to those who are upright _and_ pure in heart. 













###### 2 






But as for me, my feet were almost gone, my steps had well-nigh slipped. 













###### 3 






For I was envious of the foolish _and_ arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. 













###### 4 






For they suffer no violent pangs in their death, but their strength is firm. 













###### 5 






They are not in trouble as other men; neither are they smitten _and_ plagued like other men. 













###### 6 






Therefore pride is about their necks like a chain; violence covers them like a garment [like a long, luxurious robe]. 













###### 7 






Their eyes stand out with fatness, they have more than heart could wish; _and_ the imaginations of their minds overflow [with follies]. 













###### 8 






They scoff, and wickedly utter oppression; they speak loftily [from on high, maliciously and blasphemously]. 













###### 9 






They set their mouths against _and_ speak down from heaven, and their tongues swagger through the earth [invading even heaven with blasphemy and smearing earth with slanders]. 













###### 10 






Therefore His people return here, and waters of a full cup [offered by the wicked] are [blindly] drained by them. 













###### 11 






And they say, How does God know? Is there knowledge in the Most High? 













###### 12 






Behold, these are the ungodly, who always prosper _and_ are at ease in the world; they increase in riches. 













###### 13 






Surely then in vain have I cleansed my heart and washed my hands in innocency. 













###### 14 






For all the day long have I been smitten _and_ plagued, and chastened every morning. 













###### 15 






Had I spoken thus [and given expression to my feelings], I would have been untrue _and_ have dealt treacherously against the generation of Your children. 













###### 16 






But when I considered how to understand this, it was too great an effort for me _and_ too painful 













###### 17 






Until I went into the sanctuary of God; then I understood [for I considered] their end. 













###### 18 






[After all] You do set the [wicked] in slippery places; You cast them down to ruin _and_ destruction. 













###### 19 






How they become a desolation in a moment! They are utterly consumed with terrors! 













###### 20 






As a dream [which seems real] until one awakens, so, O Lord, when You arouse Yourself [to take note of the wicked], You will despise their outward show. 













###### 21 






For my heart was grieved, embittered, _and_ in a state of ferment, and I was pricked in my heart [as with the sharp fang of an adder]. 













###### 22 






So foolish, stupid, _and_ brutish was I, and ignorant; I was like a beast before You. 













###### 23 






Nevertheless I am continually with You; You do hold my right hand. 













###### 24 






You will guide me with Your counsel, and afterward receive me to honor _and_ glory. 













###### 25 






Whom have I in heaven but You? And I have no delight _or_ desire on earth besides You. 













###### 26 






My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the Rock _and_ firm Strength of my heart and my Portion forever. 













###### 27 






For behold, those who are far from You shall perish; You will destroy all who are false to You _and_ like [spiritual] harlots depart from You. 













###### 28 






But it is good for me to draw near to God; I have put my trust in the Lord God _and_ made Him my refuge, that I may tell of all Your works.
