---
Aliases: [Psalms 79]
previous: ['Ps 78']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 80']
---
# Psalms 79

***














###### 1 






O God, the nations have come into [the land of Your people] Your inheritance; Your sacred temple have they defiled; they have made Jerusalem heaps of ruins. 













###### 2 






The dead bodies of Your servants they have given as food to the birds of the heavens, the flesh of Your saints to the beasts of the earth. 













###### 3 






Their blood they have poured out like water round about Jerusalem, and there was none to bury them. 













###### 4 






[Because of such humiliation] we have become a taunt _and_ reproach to our neighbors, a mocking and derision to those who are round about us. 













###### 5 






How long, O Lord? Will You be angry forever? Shall Your jealousy [which cannot endure a divided allegiance] burn like fire? 













###### 6 






Pour out Your wrath on the Gentile nations who do not acknowledge You, and upon the kingdoms that do not call on Your name. 













###### 7 






For they have devoured Jacob and laid waste his dwelling _and_ his pasture. 













###### 8 






O do not [earnestly] remember against us the iniquities _and_ guilt of our forefathers! Let Your compassion _and_ tender mercy speedily come to meet us, for we are brought very low. 













###### 9 






Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of Your name! Deliver us, forgive us, _and_ purge away our sins for Your name's sake. 













###### 10 






Why should the Gentile nations say, Where is their God? Let vengeance for the blood of Your servants which is poured out be known among the nations in our sight [not delaying until some future generation]. 













###### 11 






Let the groaning _and_ sighing of the prisoner come before You; according to the greatness of Your power _and_ Your arm spare those who are appointed to die! 













###### 12 






And return into the bosom of our neighbors sevenfold the taunts with which they have taunted _and_ scoffed at You, O Lord! 













###### 13 






Then we Your people, the sheep of Your pasture, will give You thanks forever; we will show forth _and_ publish Your praise from generation to generation. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
