---
Aliases: [Psalms 72]
previous: ['Ps 71']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 73']
---
# Psalms 72

***














###### 1 






Give the king [knowledge of] Your [way of] judging, O God, and [the spirit of] Your righteousness to the king's son [to control all his actions]. 













###### 2 






Let him judge _and_ govern Your people with righteousness, and Your poor _and_ afflicted ones with judgment _and_ justice. 













###### 3 






The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and the hills, through [the general establishment of] righteousness. 













###### 4 






May he judge _and_ defend the poor of the people, deliver the children of the needy, and crush the oppressor, 













###### 5 






So that they may revere _and_ fear You while the sun and moon endure, throughout all generations. 













###### 6 






May he [Solomon as a type of King David's greater Son] be like rain that comes down upon the mown grass, like showers that water the earth. 













###### 7 






In His [Christ's] days shall the [uncompromisingly] righteous flourish and peace abound till there is a moon no longer. 













###### 8 






He [Christ] shall have dominion also from sea to sea and from the River [Euphrates] to the ends of the earth. 













###### 9 






Those who dwell in the wilderness shall bow before Him and His enemies shall lick the dust. 













###### 10 






The kings of Tarshish and of the coasts shall bring offerings; the kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts. 













###### 11 






Yes, all kings shall fall down before Him, all nations shall serve Him. 













###### 12 






For He delivers the needy when he calls out, the poor also and him who has no helper. 













###### 13 






He will have pity on the poor _and_ weak and needy and will save the lives of the needy. 













###### 14 






He will redeem their lives from oppression _and_ fraud and violence, and precious _and_ costly shall their blood be in His sight. 













###### 15 






And He shall live; and to Him shall be given gold of Sheba; prayer also shall be made for Him _and_ through Him continually, _and_ they shall bless _and_ praise Him all the day long. 













###### 16 






There shall be abundance of grain in the soil upon the top of the mountains [the least fruitful places in the land]; the fruit of it shall wave like [the forests of] Lebanon, and [the inhabitants of] the city shall flourish like grass of the earth. 













###### 17 






His name shall endure forever; His name shall continue as long as the sun [indeed, His name continues before the sun]. And men shall be blessed _and_ bless themselves by Him; all nations shall call Him blessed! 













###### 18 






Blessed be the Lord God, the God of Israel, Who alone does wondrous things! 













###### 19 






Blessed be His glorious name forever; let the whole earth be filled with His glory! Amen and Amen! 













###### 20 






The prayers of David son of Jesse are ended.
