---
Aliases: [Psalms 76]
previous: ['Ps 75']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 77']
---
# Psalms 76

***














###### 1 






In Judah God is known _and_ renowned; His name is highly praised _and_ is great in Israel. 













###### 2 






In [Jeru]Salem also is His tabernacle, and His dwelling place is in Zion. 













###### 3 






There He broke the bow's flashing arrows, the shield, the sword, and the weapons of war. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 4 






Glorious _and_ excellent are You from the mountains of prey [splendid and majestic, more than the everlasting mountains]. 













###### 5 






The stouthearted are stripped of their spoil, they have slept the sleep [of death]; and none of the men of might could raise their hands. 













###### 6 






At Your rebuke, O God of Jacob, both chariot [rider] and horse are cast into a dead sleep [of death]. 













###### 7 






You, even You, are to be feared [with awe and reverence]! Who may stand in Your presence when once Your anger is roused? 













###### 8 






You caused sentence to be heard from heaven; the earth feared and was still-- 













###### 9 






When God arose to [establish] judgment, to save all the meek _and_ oppressed of the earth. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 10 






Surely the wrath of man shall praise You; the remainder of wrath shall You restrain _and_ gird _and_ arm Yourself with it. 













###### 11 






Vow and pay to the Lord your God; let all who are round about Him bring presents to Him Who ought to be [reverently] feared. 













###### 12 






He will cut off the spirit [of pride and fury] of princes; He is terrible to the [ungodly] kings of the earth. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
