---
Aliases: [Psalms 88]
previous: ['Ps 87']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 89']
---
# Psalms 88

***














###### 1 






O Lord, the God of my salvation, I have cried to You for help by day; at night I am in Your presence. 













###### 2 






Let my prayer come before You _and_ really enter into Your presence; incline Your ear to my cry! 













###### 3 






For I am full of troubles, and my life draws near to Sheol (the place of the dead). 













###### 4 






I am counted among those who go down into the pit (the grave); I am like a man who has no help _or_ strength [a mere shadow], 













###### 5 






Cast away among the dead, like the slain that lie in a [nameless] grave, whom You [seriously] remember no more, and they are cut off from Your hand. 













###### 6 






You have laid me in the depths of the lowest pit, in darkness, in the deeps. 













###### 7 






Your wrath lies hard upon me, and You have afflicted me with all Your waves. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 8 






You have put my [familiar] friends far from me; You have made me an abomination to them. I am shut up, and I cannot come forth. 













###### 9 






My eye grows dim because of sorrow _and_ affliction. Lord, I have called daily on You; I have spread forth my hands to You. 













###### 10 






Will You show wonders to the dead? Shall the departed arise and praise You? Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 11 






Shall Your steadfast love be declared in the grave? Or Your faithfulness in Abaddon (Sheol, as a place of ruin and destruction)? 













###### 12 






Shall Your wonders be known in the dark? And Your righteousness in the place of forgetfulness [where the dead forget and are forgotten]? 













###### 13 






But to You I cry, O Lord; and in the morning shall my prayer come to meet You. 













###### 14 






Lord, why do You cast me off? Why do You hide Your face from me? 













###### 15 






I was afflicted and close to death from my youth up; while I suffer Your terrors I am distracted [I faint]. 













###### 16 






Your fierce wrath has swept over me; Your terrors have destroyed me. 













###### 17 






They surround me like a flood all day long; together they have closed in upon me. 













###### 18 






Lover and friend have You put far from me; my familiar friends are darkness _and_ the grave. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
