---
Aliases: [Psalms 85]
previous: ['Ps 84']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 86']
---
# Psalms 85

***














###### 1 






Lord, You have [at last] been favorable _and_ have dealt graciously with Your land [of Canaan]; You have brought back [from Babylon] the captives of Jacob. 













###### 2 






You have forgiven _and_ taken away the iniquity of Your people, You have covered all their sin. Selah [pause, and calmly realize what that means]! 













###### 3 






You have withdrawn all Your wrath _and_ indignation, You have turned away from the blazing anger [which You had let loose]. 













###### 4 






Restore us, O God of our salvation, and cause Your anger toward us to cease [forever]. 













###### 5 






Will You be angry with us forever? Will You prolong Your anger [and disfavor] _and_ spread it out to all generations? 













###### 6 






Will You not revive us again, that Your people may rejoice in You? 













###### 7 






Show us Your mercy _and_ loving-kindness, O Lord, and grant us Your salvation. 













###### 8 






I will listen [with expectancy] to what God the Lord will say, for He will speak peace to His people, to His saints (those who are in right standing with Him)--but let them not turn again to [self-confident] folly. 













###### 9 






Surely His salvation is near to those who reverently _and_ worshipfully fear Him, [and is ready to be appropriated] that [the manifest presence of God, His] glory may tabernacle _and_ abide in our land. 













###### 10 






Mercy _and_ loving-kindness and truth have met together; righteousness and peace have kissed each other. 













###### 11 






Truth shall spring up from the earth, and righteousness shall look down from heaven. 













###### 12 






Yes, the Lord will give what is good, and our land will yield its increase. 













###### 13 






Righteousness shall go before Him and shall make His footsteps a way in which to walk.
