---
Aliases: [Psalms 82]
previous: ['Ps 81']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 83']
---
# Psalms 82

***














###### 1 






God stands in the assembly [of the representatives] of God; in the midst of the magistrates _or_ judges He gives judgment [as] among the gods. 













###### 2 






How long will you [magistrates or judges] judge unjustly and show partiality to the wicked? Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 3 






Do justice to the weak (poor) and fatherless; maintain the rights of the afflicted and needy. 













###### 4 






Deliver the poor and needy; rescue them out of the hand of the wicked. 













###### 5 






[The magistrates and judges] know not, neither will they understand; they walk on in the darkness [of complacent satisfaction]; all the foundations of the earth [the fundamental principles upon which rests the administration of justice] are shaking. 













###### 6 






I said, You are gods [since you judge on My behalf, as My representatives]; indeed, all of you are children of the Most High. 













###### 7 






But you shall die as men and fall as one of the princes. 













###### 8 






Arise, O God, judge the earth! For to You belong all the nations. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
