---
Aliases: [Psalms 80]
previous: ['Ps 79']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 81']
---
# Psalms 80

***














###### 1 






Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, You Who lead Joseph like a flock; You Who sit enthroned upon the cherubim [of the ark of the covenant], shine forth 













###### 2 






Before [^a]Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh! Stir up Your might, and come to save us! 













###### 3 






Restore us again, O God; and cause Your face to shine [in pleasure and approval on us], and we shall be saved! 













###### 4 






O Lord God of hosts, how long will You be angry with Your people's prayers? 













###### 5 






You have fed them with the bread of tears, and You have given them tears to drink in large measure. 













###### 6 






You make us a strife _and_ scorn to our neighbors, and our enemies laugh among themselves. 













###### 7 






Restore us again, O God of hosts; and cause Your face to shine [upon us with favor as of old], and we shall be saved! 













###### 8 






You brought a vine [Israel] out of Egypt; You drove out the [heathen] nations and planted it [in Canaan]. 













###### 9 






You prepared room before it, and it took deep root and it filled the land. 













###### 10 






The mountains were covered with the shadow of it, and the boughs of it were like the great cedars [cedars of God]. 













###### 11 






[Israel] sent out its boughs to the [Mediterranean] Sea and its branches to the [Euphrates] River. 













###### 12 






Why have You broken down its hedges _and_ walls so that all who pass by pluck from its fruit? 













###### 13 






The boar out of the wood wastes it and the wild beast of the field feeds on it. 













###### 14 






Turn again, we beseech You, O God of hosts! Look down from heaven and see, visit, _and_ have regard for this vine! 













###### 15 






[Protect and maintain] the stock which Your right hand planted, and the branch (the son) that You have reared _and_ made strong for Yourself. 













###### 16 






They have burned it with fire, it is cut down; may they perish at the rebuke of Your countenance. 













###### 17 






Let Your hand be upon the man of Your right hand, upon the son of man whom You have made strong for Yourself. 













###### 18 






Then will we not depart from You; revive us (give us life) and we will call upon Your name. 













###### 19 






Restore us, O Lord God of hosts; cause Your face to shine [in pleasure, approval, and favor on us], and we shall be saved! ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 80:2 It is supposed that these three tribes represented the whole twelve tribes of Israel, Benjamin being incorporated with Judah, Manasseh embracing the country beyond the Jordan, and Ephraim the remainder. It was natural for the Israelites to think of the three in one group, for they had camped together on the west side of the tabernacle during the years in the wilderness, and also they were the only descendants of Jacob’s wife Rachel.
