---
Aliases: [Psalms 89]
previous: ['Ps 88']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 90']
---
# Psalms 89

***














###### 1 






I will sing of the mercy _and_ loving-kindness of the Lord forever; with my mouth will I make known Your faithfulness from generation to generation. 













###### 2 






For I have said, Mercy _and_ loving-kindness shall be built up forever; Your faithfulness will You establish in the very heavens [unchangeable and perpetual]. 













###### 3 






[You have said] I have made a covenant with My chosen one, I have sworn to David My servant, 













###### 4 






Your Seed I will establish forever, and I will build up your throne for all generations. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 5 






Let heaven (the angels) praise Your wonders, O Lord, Your faithfulness also in the assembly of the holy ones (the holy angels). 













###### 6 






For who in the heavens can be compared to the Lord? Who among the mighty [heavenly beings] can be likened to the Lord, 













###### 7 






A God greatly feared _and_ revered in the council of the holy (angelic) ones, and to be feared _and_ worshipfully revered above all those who are round about Him? 













###### 8 






O Lord God of hosts, who is a mighty one like unto You, O Lord? And Your faithfulness is round about You [an essential part of You at all times]. 













###### 9 






You rule the raging of the sea; when its waves arise, You still them. 













###### 10 






You have broken Rahab (Egypt) in pieces; with Your mighty arm You have scattered Your enemies. 













###### 11 






The heavens are Yours, the earth also is Yours; the world and all that is in it, You have founded them. 













###### 12 






The north and the south, You have created them; Mount Tabor and Mount Hermon joyously praise Your name. 













###### 13 






You have a mighty arm; strong is Your hand, Your right hand is soaring high. 













###### 14 






Righteousness and justice are the foundation of Your throne; mercy _and_ loving-kindness and truth go before Your face. 













###### 15 






Blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) are the people who know the joyful sound [who understand and appreciate the spiritual blessings symbolized by the feasts]; they walk, O Lord, in the light _and_ favor of Your countenance! 













###### 16 






In Your name they rejoice all the day, and in Your righteousness they are exalted. 













###### 17 






For You are the glory of their strength [their proud adornment], and by Your favor our horn is exalted _and_ we walk with uplifted faces! 













###### 18 






For our shield belongs to the Lord, and our king to the Holy One of Israel. 













###### 19 






Once You spoke in a vision to Your devoted ones and said, I have endowed one who is mighty [a hero, giving him the power to help--to be a champion for Israel]; I have exalted one chosen from among the people. 













###### 20 






I have found David My servant; with My holy oil have I anointed him, 













###### 21 






With whom My hand shall be established _and_ ever abide; My arm also shall strengthen him. 













###### 22 






The enemy shall not exact from him _or_ do him violence _or_ outwit him, nor shall the wicked afflict _and_ humble him. 













###### 23 






I will beat down his foes before his face and smite those who hate him. 













###### 24 






My faithfulness and My mercy _and_ loving-kindness shall be with him, and in My name shall his horn be exalted [great power and prosperity shall be conferred upon him]. 













###### 25 






I will set his hand in control also on the [Mediterranean] Sea, and his right hand on the rivers [Euphrates with its tributaries]. 













###### 26 






He shall cry to Me, You are my Father, my God, and the Rock of my salvation! 













###### 27 






Also I will make him the firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth. 













###### 28 






My mercy _and_ loving-kindness will I keep for him forevermore, and My covenant shall stand fast _and_ be faithful with him. 













###### 29 






His Offspring also will I make to endure forever, and his throne as the days of heaven. 













###### 30 






If his children forsake My law and walk not in My ordinances, 













###### 31 






If they break _or_ profane My statutes and keep not My commandments, 













###### 32 






Then will I punish their transgression with the rod [of chastisement], and their iniquity with stripes. 













###### 33 






Nevertheless, My loving-kindness will I not break off from him, nor allow My faithfulness to fail [to lie and be false to him]. 













###### 34 






My covenant will I not break _or_ profane, nor alter the thing that is gone out of My lips. 













###### 35 






Once [for all] have I sworn by My holiness, which cannot be violated; I will not lie to David: 













###### 36 






His Offspring shall endure forever, and his throne [shall continue] as the sun before Me. 













###### 37 






It shall be established forever as the moon, the faithful witness in the heavens. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 38 






But [in apparent contradiction to all this] You [even You the faithful Lord] have cast off and rejected; You have been full of wrath against Your anointed. 













###### 39 






You have despised _and_ loathed and renounced the covenant with Your servant; You have profaned his crown by casting it to the ground. 













###### 40 






You have broken down all his hedges _and_ his walls; You have brought his strongholds to ruin. 













###### 41 






All who pass along the road spoil _and_ rob him; he has become the scorn _and_ reproach of his neighbors. 













###### 42 






You have exalted the right hand of his foes; You have made all his enemies rejoice. 













###### 43 






Moreover, You have turned back the edge of his sword and have not made him to stand in battle. 













###### 44 






You have made his glory _and_ splendor to cease and have hurled to the ground his throne. 













###### 45 






The days of his youth have You shortened; You have covered him with shame. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! 













###### 46 






How long, O Lord? Will You hide Yourself forever? How long shall Your wrath burn like fire? 













###### 47 






O [earnestly] remember how short my time is _and_ what a mere fleeting life mine is. For what emptiness, falsity, futility, _and_ frailty You have created all men! 













###### 48 






What man can live and shall not see death, or can deliver himself from the [powerful] hand of Sheol (the place of the dead)? Selah [pause, and calmly consider that]! 













###### 49 






Lord, where are Your former loving-kindnesses [shown in the reigns of David and Solomon], which You swore to David in Your faithfulness? 













###### 50 






Remember, Lord, _and_ earnestly imprint [on Your heart] the reproach of Your servants, scorned _and_ insulted, how I bear in my bosom the reproach of all the many _and_ mighty peoples, 













###### 51 






With which Your enemies have taunted, O Lord, with which they have mocked the footsteps of Your anointed. 













###### 52 






Blessed be the Lord forevermore! Amen and Amen.
