---
Aliases: [Psalms 91]
previous: ['Ps 90']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 92']
---
# Psalms 91

***














###### 1 






He who dwells in the secret place of the Most High shall remain stable _and_ fixed under the shadow of the Almighty [Whose power no foe can withstand]. 













###### 2 






I will say of the Lord, He is my Refuge and my Fortress, my God; on Him I lean _and_ rely, _and_ in Him I [confidently] trust! 













###### 3 






For [then] He will deliver you from the snare of the fowler and from the deadly pestilence. 













###### 4 






[Then] He will cover you with His pinions, and under His wings shall you trust _and_ find refuge; His truth _and_ His faithfulness are a shield and a buckler. 













###### 5 






You shall not be afraid of the terror of the night, nor of the arrow (the evil plots and slanders of the wicked) that flies by day, 













###### 6 






Nor of the pestilence that stalks in darkness, nor of the destruction _and_ sudden death that surprise _and_ lay waste at noonday. 













###### 7 






A thousand may fall at your side, and ten thousand at your right hand, but it shall not come near you. 













###### 8 






Only a spectator shall you be [yourself inaccessible in the secret place of the Most High] as you witness the reward of the wicked. 













###### 9 






Because you have made the Lord your refuge, and the Most High your dwelling place, 













###### 10 






There shall no evil befall you, nor any plague _or_ calamity come near your tent. 













###### 11 






For He will give His angels [especial] charge over you to accompany _and_ defend _and_ preserve you in all your ways [of obedience and service]. 













###### 12 






They shall bear you up on their hands, lest you dash your foot against a stone. 













###### 13 






You shall tread upon the lion and adder; the young lion and the serpent shall you trample underfoot. 













###### 14 






Because he has set his love upon Me, therefore will I deliver him; I will set him on high, because he knows _and_ understands My name [has a personal knowledge of My mercy, love, and kindness--trusts and relies on Me, knowing I will never forsake him, no, never]. 













###### 15 






He shall call upon Me, and I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble, I will deliver him and honor him. 













###### 16 






With long life will I satisfy him and show him My salvation.
