---
Aliases: [Psalms 90]
previous: ['Ps 89']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 91']
---
# Psalms 90

***














###### 1 






Lord, You have been our dwelling place _and_ our refuge in all generations [says Moses]. 













###### 2 






Before the mountains were brought forth or ever You had formed _and_ given birth to the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting You are God. 













###### 3 






You turn man back to dust _and_ corruption, and say, Return, O sons of the earthborn [to the earth]! 













###### 4 






For a thousand years in Your sight are but as yesterday when it is past, or as a watch in the night. 













###### 5 






You carry away [these disobedient people, doomed to die within forty years] as with a flood; they are as a sleep [vague and forgotten as soon as they are gone]. In the morning they are like grass which grows up-- 













###### 6 






In the morning it flourishes and springs up; in the evening it is mown down and withers. 













###### 7 






For we [the Israelites in the wilderness] are consumed by Your anger, and by Your wrath are we troubled, overwhelmed, _and_ frightened away. 













###### 8 






Our iniquities, our secret heart _and_ its sins [which we would so like to conceal even from ourselves], You have set in the [revealing] light of Your countenance. 













###### 9 






For all our days [out here in this wilderness, says Moses] pass away in Your wrath; we spend our years as a tale that is told [for we adults know we are doomed to die soon, without reaching Canaan]. 













###### 10 






The days of our years are [^a]threescore years and ten (seventy years)--or even, if by reason of strength, fourscore years (eighty years); yet is their pride [in additional years] only labor and sorrow, for it is soon gone, and we fly away. 













###### 11 






Who knows the power of Your anger? [Who worthily connects this brevity of life with Your recognition of sin?] And Your wrath, who connects it with the reverent _and_ worshipful fear that is due You? 













###### 12 






So teach us to number our days, that we may get us a heart of wisdom. 













###### 13 






Turn, O Lord [from Your fierce anger]! How long--? Revoke Your sentence _and_ be compassionate _and_ at ease toward Your servants. 













###### 14 






O satisfy us with Your mercy _and_ loving-kindness in the morning [now, before we are older], that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. 













###### 15 






Make us glad in proportion to the days in which You have afflicted us _and_ to the years in which we have suffered evil. 













###### 16 






Let Your work [the signs of Your power] be revealed to Your servants, and Your [glorious] majesty to their children. 













###### 17 






And let the beauty _and_ delightfulness _and_ favor of the Lord our God be upon us; confirm _and_ establish the work of our hands--yes, the work of our hands, confirm _and_ establish it. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: Psalm 90:10 This psalm is credited to Moses, who is interceding with God to remove the curse which made it necessary for every Israelite over twenty years of age (when they rebelled against God at Kadesh-barnea) to die before reaching the promised land (Num. 14:26-35). Moses says most of them are dying at seventy years of age. This number has often been mistaken as a set span of life for all mankind. It was not intended to refer to anyone except those Israelites under the curse during that particular forty years. Seventy years never has been the average span of life for humanity. When Jacob, the father of the twelve tribes, had reached 130 years (Gen. 47:9), he complained that he had not attained to the years of his immediate ancestors. In fact, Moses himself lived to be 120 years old, Aaron 123, Miriam several years older, and Joshua 110 years of age. Note as well that in the Millennium a person dying at 100 will still be thought a child (Isa. 65:20).
