---
Aliases: [Psalms 96]
previous: ['Ps 95']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 97']
---
# Psalms 96

***














###### 1 






O sing to the Lord a new song; sing to the Lord, all the earth! 













###### 2 






Sing to the Lord, bless (affectionately praise) His name; show forth His salvation from day to day. 













###### 3 






Declare His glory among the nations, His marvelous works among all the peoples. 













###### 4 






For great is the Lord and greatly to be praised; He is to be reverently feared _and_ worshiped above all [so-called] gods. 













###### 5 






For all the gods of the nations are [lifeless] idols, but the Lord made the heavens. 













###### 6 






Honor and majesty are before Him; strength and beauty are in His sanctuary. 













###### 7 






Ascribe to the Lord, O you families of the peoples, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength. 













###### 8 






Give to the Lord the glory due His name; bring an offering and come [before Him] into His courts. 













###### 9 






O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness; tremble before _and_ reverently fear Him, all the earth. 













###### 10 






Say among the nations that the Lord reigns; the world also is established, so that it cannot be moved; He shall judge _and_ rule the people righteously _and_ with justice. 













###### 11 






Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice; let the sea roar, and all the things which fill it; 













###### 12 






Let the field be exultant, and all that is in it! Then shall all the trees of the wood sing for joy 













###### 13 






Before the Lord, for He comes, for He comes to judge _and_ govern the earth! He shall judge the world with righteousness _and_ justice and the peoples with His faithfulness _and_ truth. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences
