---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 15]
previous: ['1 Cor 14']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 16']
---
# 1 Corinthians 15

***










###### 1 




Now I want to make clear for you, brothers and sisters, the gospel I preached to you, which you received, on which you have taken your stand 









###### 2 




and by which you are being saved, if you hold to the message I preached to you--unless you believed in vain. 









###### 3 




For I passed on to you as most important what I also received: that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, 









###### 4 




that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day according to the Scriptures, 









###### 5 




and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the Twelve. 









###### 6 




Then he appeared to over five hundred brothers and sisters at one time; most of them are still alive, but some have fallen asleep. 









###### 7 




Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles. 









###### 8 




Last of all, as to one born at the wrong time,[^a] he also appeared to me. 









###### 9 




For I am the least of the apostles, not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. 









###### 10 




But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, I worked harder than any of them, yet not I, but the grace of God that was with me. 









###### 11 




Whether, then, it is I or they, so we proclaim and so you have believed. ## Resurrection Essential to the Faith 









###### 12 




Now if Christ is proclaimed as raised from the dead, how can some of you say, "There is no resurrection of the dead"? 









###### 13 




If there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised; 









###### 14 




and if Christ has not been raised, then our proclamation is in vain, and so is your faith.[^b] 









###### 15 




Moreover, we are found to be false witnesses about God, because we have testified wrongly about God that he raised up Christ--whom he did not raise up, if in fact the dead are not raised. 









###### 16 




For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised. 









###### 17 




And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is worthless; you are still in your sins. 









###### 18 




Those, then, who have fallen asleep in Christ have also perished. 









###### 19 




If we have put our hope in Christ for this life only, we should be pitied more than anyone. ## Christ's Resurrection Guarantees Ours 









###### 20 




But as it is, Christ has been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep. 









###### 21 




For since death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead also comes through a man. 









###### 22 




For just as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive. 









###### 23 




But each in his own order: Christ, the firstfruits; afterward, at his coming, those who belong to Christ. 









###### 24 




Then comes the end, when he hands over the kingdom to God the Father, when he abolishes all rule and all authority and power. 









###### 25 




For he must reign until he puts all his enemies under his feet. 









###### 26 




The last enemy to be abolished is death. 









###### 27 




For <b class="quote">God has put everything under his feet.**[^c] Now when it says "everything" is put under him, it is obvious that he who puts everything under him is the exception. 









###### 28 




When everything is subject to Christ, then the Son himself will also be subject to the one who subjected everything to him, so that God may be all in all. ## Resurrection Supported by Christian Experience 









###### 29 




Otherwise what will they do who are being baptized for the dead?[^d] If the dead are not raised at all, then why are people baptized for them?[^e] 









###### 30 




Why are we in danger every hour? 









###### 31 




I face death every day, as surely as I may boast about you, brothers and sisters, in Christ Jesus our Lord. 









###### 32 




If I fought wild beasts in Ephesus as a mere man, what good did that do me? If the dead are not raised, <b class="quote">Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die.**[^f] 









###### 33 




Do not be deceived: "Bad company corrupts good morals." 









###### 34 




Come to your senses[^g] and stop sinning; for some people are ignorant about God. I say this to your shame. ## The Nature of the Resurrection Body 









###### 35 




But someone will ask, "How are the dead raised? What kind of body will they have when they come?" 









###### 36 




You fool! What you sow does not come to life unless it dies. 









###### 37 




And as for what you sow--you are not sowing the body that will be, but only a seed, perhaps of wheat or another grain. 









###### 38 




But God gives it a body as he wants, and to each of the seeds its own body. 









###### 39 




Not all flesh is the same flesh; there is one flesh for humans, another for animals, another for birds, and another for fish. 









###### 40 




There are heavenly bodies and earthly bodies, but the splendor of the heavenly bodies is different from that of the earthly ones. 









###### 41 




There is a splendor of the sun, another of the moon, and another of the stars; in fact, one star differs from another star in splendor. 









###### 42 




So it is with the resurrection of the dead: Sown in corruption, raised in incorruption; 









###### 43 




sown in dishonor, raised in glory; sown in weakness, raised in power; 









###### 44 




sown a natural body, raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body. 









###### 45 




So it is written, <b class="quote">The first man Adam became a living being**;[^h] the last Adam became a life-giving spirit. 









###### 46 




However, the spiritual is not first, but the natural, then the spiritual. 









###### 47 




The first man was from the earth, a man of dust; the second man is[^i] from heaven. 









###### 48 




Like the man of dust, so are those who are of the dust; like the man of heaven, so are those who are of heaven. 









###### 49 




And just as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we will also bear the image of the man of heaven. ## Victorious Resurrection 









###### 50 




What I am saying, brothers and sisters, is this: Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor can corruption inherit incorruption. 









###### 51 




Listen, I am telling you a mystery: We will not all fall asleep, but we will all be changed, 









###### 52 




in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we will be changed. 









###### 53 




For this corruptible body must be clothed with incorruptibility, and this mortal body must be clothed with immortality. 









###### 54 




When this corruptible body is clothed with incorruptibility, and this mortal body is clothed with immortality, then the saying that is written will take place: <b class="quote">Death has been swallowed up** <b class="quote">in victory.**[^j] 









###### 55 




<b class="quote">Where, death, is your victory?** <b class="quote">Where, death, is your sting?**[^k] 









###### 56 




The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. 









###### 57 




But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ! 









###### 58 




Therefore, my dear brothers and sisters, be steadfast, immovable, always excelling in the Lord's work, because you know that your labor in the Lord is not in vain. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 15:8 Or <em>one whose birth was unusual</em> [^b]: 15:14 Or <em>proclamation is useless, and your faith also is useless</em>, or <em>proclamation is empty, and your faith also is empty</em> [^c]: 15:27 Ps 8:6; 110:1 [^d]: 15:29 Or <em>baptized on account of the dead</em> [^e]: 15:29 Other mss read <em>for the dead</em> [^f]: 15:32 Is 22:13 [^g]: 15:34 Lit <em>Sober up</em> [^h]: 15:45 Gn 2:7 [^i]: 15:47 Other mss add <em>the Lord</em> [^j]: 15:54 Is 25:8 [^k]: 15:55 Hs 13:14
