---
Aliases: [2 Samuel 23]
previous: ['2 Sam 22']
up: ['2 Samuel']
next: ['2 Sam 24']
---
# 2 Samuel 23

***


###### 1 
Now these _are_ the last words of David. _Thus_ says David the son of Jesse; _Thus_ says the man raised up on high, The anointed of the God of Jacob, And the sweet psalmist of Israel: 

###### 2 
"The Spirit of the Lord spoke by me, And His word _was_ on my tongue. 

###### 3 
The God of Israel said, The Rock of Israel spoke to me: 'He who rules over men _must be_ just, Ruling in the fear of God. 

###### 4 
And _he shall be_ like the light of the morning _when_ the sun rises, A morning without clouds, _Like_ the tender grass _springing_ out of the earth, By clear shining after rain.' 

###### 5 
"Although my house _is_ not so with God, Yet He has made with me an everlasting covenant, Ordered in all _things_ and secure. For _this is_ all my salvation and all _my_ desire; Will He not make _it_ increase? 

###### 6 
But _the sons_ of rebellion _shall_ all _be_ as thorns thrust away, Because they cannot be taken with hands. 

###### 7 
But the man _who_ touches them Must be armed with iron and the shaft of a spear, And they shall be utterly burned with fire in _their_ place." 

## David's Mighty Men 

###### 8 
These _are_ the names of the mighty men whom David had: Josheb-Basshebeth the Tachmonite, chief among the captains. He was called Adino the Eznite, because he had killed eight hundred men at one time. 

###### 9 
And after him _was_ Eleazar the son of Dodo, the Ahohite, _one_ of the three mighty men with David when they defied the Philistines _who_ were gathered there for battle, and the men of Israel had retreated. 

###### 10 
He arose and attacked the Philistines until his hand was weary, and his hand stuck to the sword. The Lord brought about a great victory that day; and the people returned after him only to plunder. 

###### 11 
And after him _was_ Shammah the son of Agee the Hararite. The Philistines had gathered together into a troop where there was a piece of ground full of lentils. So the people fled from the Philistines. 

###### 12 
But he stationed himself in the middle of the field, defended it, and killed the Philistines. So the Lord brought about a great victory. 

###### 13 
Then three of the thirty chief men went down at harvest time and came to David at the cave of Adullam. And the troop of Philistines encamped in the Valley of Rephaim. 

###### 14 
David _was_ then in the stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines _was_ then _in_ Bethlehem. 

###### 15 
And David said with longing, "Oh, that someone would give me a drink of the water from the well of Bethlehem, which _is_ by the gate!" 

###### 16 
So the three mighty men broke through the camp of the Philistines, drew water from the well of Bethlehem that _was_ by the gate, and took it and brought _it_ to David. Nevertheless he would not drink it, but poured it out to the Lord. 

###### 17 
And he said, "Far be it from me, O Lord, that I should do this! Is _this not_ the blood of the men who went in _jeopardy of_ their lives?" Therefore he would not drink it. These things were done by the three mighty men. 

###### 18 
Now Abishai the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was chief of _another_ three. He lifted his spear against three hundred _men,_ killed _them,_ and won a name among _these_ three. 

###### 19 
Was he not the most honored of three? Therefore he became their captain. However, he did not attain to the _first_ three. 

###### 20 
Benaiah _was_ the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man from Kabzeel, who had done many deeds. He had killed two lion-like heroes of Moab. He also had gone down and killed a lion in the midst of a pit on a snowy day. 

###### 21 
And he killed an Egyptian, a spectacular man. The Egyptian _had_ a spear in his hand; so he went down to him with a staff, wrested the spear out of the Egyptian's hand, and killed him with his own spear. 

###### 22 
These _things_ Benaiah the son of Jehoiada did, and won a name among three mighty men. 

###### 23 
He was more honored than the thirty, but he did not attain to the _first_ three. And David appointed him over his guard. 

###### 24 
Asahel the brother of Joab _was_ one of the thirty; Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem, 

###### 25 
Shammah the Harodite, Elika the Harodite, 

###### 26 
Helez the Paltite, Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, 

###### 27 
Abiezer the Anathothite, Mebunnai the Hushathite, 

###### 28 
Zalmon the Ahohite, Maharai the Netophathite, 

###### 29 
Heleb the son of Baanah (the Netophathite), Ittai the son of Ribai from Gibeah of the children of Benjamin, 

###### 30 
Benaiah a Pirathonite, Hiddai from the brooks of Gaash, 

###### 31 
Abi-Albon the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumite, 

###### 32 
Eliahba the Shaalbonite (of the sons of Jashen), Jonathan, 

###### 33 
Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam the son of Sharar the Hararite, 

###### 34 
Eliphelet the son of Ahasbai, the son of the Maachathite, Eliam the son of Ahithophel the Gilonite, 

###### 35 
Hezrai the Carmelite, Paarai the Arbite, 

###### 36 
Igal the son of Nathan of Zobah, Bani the Gadite, 

###### 37 
Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Beerothite (armorbearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah), 

###### 38 
Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite, 

###### 39 
_and_ Uriah the Hittite: thirty-seven in all.
