---
Aliases: [2 Chronicles 27]
previous: ['2 Chr 26']
up: ['2 Chronicles']
next: ['2 Chr 28']
---
# 2 Chronicles 27

***




















###### 1 









Jotham was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem sixteen years. His mother's name was Jerusha daughter of Zadok. 



















###### 2 









He did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, just as his father Uzziah had done, but unlike him he did not enter the temple of the LORD. The people, however, continued their corrupt practices. 



















###### 3 









Jotham rebuilt the Upper Gate of the temple of the LORD and did extensive work on the wall at the hill of Ophel. 



















###### 4 









He built towns in the hill country of Judah and forts and towers in the wooded areas. 



















###### 5 









Jotham waged war against the king of the Ammonites and conquered them. That year the Ammonites paid him a hundred talents[^a] of silver, ten thousand cors[^b] of wheat and ten thousand cors[^c] of barley. The Ammonites brought him the same amount also in the second and third years. 



















###### 6 









Jotham grew powerful because he walked steadfastly before the LORD his God. 



















###### 7 









The other events in Jotham's reign, including all his wars and the other things he did, are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah. 



















###### 8 









He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem sixteen years. 



















###### 9 









Jotham rested with his ancestors and was buried in the City of David. And Ahaz his son succeeded him as king. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Chronicles 27:5 That is, about 3 3/4 tons or about 3.4 metric tons [^b]: 2 Chronicles 27:5 That is, probably about 1,800 tons or about 1,600 metric tons of wheat [^c]: 2 Chronicles 27:5 That is, probably about 1,500 tons or about 1,350 metric tons of barley
