---
Aliases: [2 Corinthians 13]
previous: ['2 Cor 12']
up: ['2 Corinthians']
---
# 2 Corinthians 13

***
















###### 1 







This is the third time that I am visiting you. Every fact shall be sustained _and_ confirmed by the testimony of two or three witnesses. 















###### 2 







I have already warned those who have sinned in the past and all the rest _as well_, and I warn them now even though I am absent [from you] as I did when I was with you the second time, that if I come back I will not spare _anyone_, 















###### 3 







since you seek [forensic] proof that Christ is speaking in _and_ through me. He is not weak _or_ ineffective in dealing with you, but powerful within you. 















###### 4 







For even though He was crucified in weakness [yielding Himself], yet He lives [resurrected] by the power of God [His Father]. For we too are weak in Him [as He was humanly weak], yet we are alive _and_ well [in fellowship] with Him because of the power of God _directed_ toward you. 















###### 5 







Test _and_ evaluate yourselves _to see_ whether you are in the faith _and_ living your lives as [committed] believers. Examine yourselves [not me]! Or do you not recognize this about yourselves [by an ongoing experience] that Jesus Christ is in you--unless indeed you fail the test _and_ are rejected as counterfeit? 















###### 6 







But I hope you will acknowledge that we do not fail the test _nor_ are we to be rejected. 















###### 7 







But I pray to God that you may do nothing wrong. Not so that we [and our teaching] may appear to be approved, but that you may continue doing what is right, even though we [by comparison] may seem to have failed. 















###### 8 







For we can do nothing against the truth, but only for the truth [and the gospel--the good news of salvation]. 















###### 9 







We are glad when we are weak [since God's power comes freely through us], but you [by comparison] are strong. We also pray for this, that you be made complete [fully restored, growing and maturing in godly character and spirit--pleasing your heavenly Father by the life you live]. 















###### 10 







For this reason I am writing these things while absent from you, so that when I come, I will not need to deal severely [with you], in my use of the authority which the Lord has given me [to be used] for building you up and not for tearing you down. 















###### 11 







Finally, believers, rejoice! Be made complete [be what you should be], be comforted, be like-minded, live in peace [enjoy the spiritual well-being experienced by believers who walk closely with God]; and the God of love and peace [the source of lovingkindness] will be with you. 















###### 12 







Greet one another with a [^a]holy kiss. 















###### 13 







All [^b]God's people greet you. 















###### 14 







The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Corinthians 13:12 A traditional greeting in biblical times, much like today’s handshake and hug. [^b]: 2 Corinthians 13:13 Lit _the saints_.
