---
Aliases: [2 Corinthians 12]
previous: ['2 Cor 11']
up: ['2 Corinthians']
next: ['2 Cor 13']
---
# 2 Corinthians 12

***
















###### 1 







It is necessary to boast, though nothing is gained by it; but I will go on to visions and revelations of the Lord. 















###### 2 







I know a [^a]man in Christ who fourteen years ago--whether in the body I do not know, or out of the body I do not know, [only] God knows--such a man was caught up to the [^b]third heaven. 















###### 3 







And I know that such a man--whether in the body or out of the body I do not know, [only] God knows-- 















###### 4 







was caught up into [^c]Paradise and heard inexpressible words which man is not permitted to speak [words too sacred to tell]. 















###### 5 







On behalf of such a man [and his experiences] I will boast; but in my own behalf I will not boast, except in regard to my weaknesses. 















###### 6 







If I wish to boast, I will not be foolish, because I will be speaking the truth. But I abstain [from it], so that no one will credit me with more than [is justified by what] he sees in me or hears from me. ## A Thorn in the Flesh 















###### 7 







Because of the surpassing greatness _and_ extraordinary nature of the revelations [which I received from God], for this reason, to keep me from thinking of myself as important, a thorn in the flesh was given to me, a messenger of Satan, to torment _and_ harass me--to keep me from exalting myself! 















###### 8 







Concerning this I pleaded with the Lord three times that it might leave me; 















###### 9 







but He has said to me, "My grace is sufficient for you [My lovingkindness and My mercy are more than enough--always available--regardless of the situation]; for [My] power is being perfected [and is completed and shows itself most effectively] in [your] weakness." Therefore, I will all the more gladly boast in my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ [may completely enfold me and] may dwell in me. 















###### 10 







So I am well pleased with weaknesses, with insults, with distresses, with persecutions, and with difficulties, for the sake of Christ; for when I am weak [in human strength], then I am strong [truly able, truly powerful, truly drawing from God's strength]. 















###### 11 







Now I have become foolish; you have forced me [by questioning my apostleship]. Actually I should have been commended by you [instead of being treated disdainfully], for I was not inferior to those [^d]super-apostles, even if I am nobody. 















###### 12 







The signs that indicate a genuine apostle were performed among you fully _and_ most patiently--signs and wonders and miracles. 















###### 13 







For in what respect were you treated as inferior to the rest of the churches, except [for the fact] that I did not burden you [with my financial support]? Forgive me [for doing you] this injustice! 















###### 14 







Now for the third time I am ready to visit you. I will not burden you [financially], because I do not want what is yours [not your money or your possessions], but you. For children are not responsible to save up for their parents, but parents for their children. 















###### 15 







But I will very gladly spend [my own resources] and be utterly spent for your souls. If I love you greatly, am I to be loved less [by you]? 















###### 16 







But be that as it may, I did not burden you [with my support]. But [some say that] I was sly and took you by trickery. 















###### 17 







Did I take advantage of you _or_ make any money off you through any of the messengers I sent you? [Certainly not!] 















###### 18 







I urged Titus to go, and I sent the brother with him. Titus did not take advantage of you, did he? [No!] Did we not conduct ourselves in the same spirit and walk in the same steps? [Of course!] 















###### 19 







All this time you have been thinking that we are [merely] defending ourselves to you. It is in the sight of God that we have been speaking [as one] in Christ; and everything, dearly beloved, is to strengthen you [spiritually]. 















###### 20 







For I am afraid that perhaps when I come I may find you not to be as I wish, and that you may find me not as you wish--that perhaps _there may be_ strife, jealousy, angry tempers, disputes, slander, gossip, arrogance and disorder; 















###### 21 







I am afraid that when I come again my God may humiliate me before you, and I may mourn over many of those who have sinned in the past and not repented of the impurity, sexual immorality and decadence which they formerly practiced. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Corinthians 12:2 Paul had this experience prior to beginning his missionary journeys. [^b]: 2 Corinthians 12:2 The dwelling place of God, called Paradise by Jesus and also by Paul (v 4). [^c]: 2 Corinthians 12:4 Paul apparently uses “Paradise” as an equivalent of the third heaven, the dwelling place of God (cf Luke 23:43). [^d]: 2 Corinthians 12:11 See note 11:5. If the false teachers were degrading Paul’s apostleship, they may have wrongly ascribed a “super-apostleship” to the Twelve, especially James, Cephas (Peter), and John. See Gal 2:9.
