---
Aliases: [2 Kings 24]
previous: ['2 Kgs 23']
up: ['2 Kings']
next: ['2 Kgs 25']
---
# 2 Kings 24

***








###### 1 



In his days Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up, and Jehoiakim became his servant for three years; then he turned and revolted against him. 







###### 2 



And the LORD sent against him bands of Chaldeans, bands of Arameans, bands of Moabites, and bands of Ammonites. He sent them against Judah to destroy it, in accordance with the word of the LORD which He had spoken through His servants the prophets. 







###### 3 



It indeed came upon Judah at the [^a]command of the LORD, to remove _them_ from His sight due to the sins of Manasseh, in accordance with everything that he had done, 







###### 4 



and also for the innocent blood which he shed, for he filled Jerusalem with innocent blood; and the LORD was unwilling to forgive. 







###### 5 



Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? ## Jehoiachin Reigns 







###### 6 



So Jehoiakim [^b]lay down with his fathers, and his son Jehoiachin became king in his place. 







###### 7 



Now the king of Egypt did not come out of his land again, because the king of Babylon had taken everything that belonged to the king of Egypt from the brook of Egypt to the river Euphrates. 







###### 8 



Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he became king, and he reigned for three months in Jerusalem; and his mother's name _was_ Nehushta the daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem. 







###### 9 



He did evil in the sight of the LORD, in accordance with all that his father had done. ## Deportation to Babylon 







###### 10 



At that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon went up to Jerusalem, and the city came under siege. 







###### 11 



And Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon came to the city, while his servants were besieging it. 







###### 12 



Then Jehoiachin the king of Judah went out to the king of Babylon, he, his mother, his servants, his commanders, and his officials. And the king of Babylon took him _prisoner_ in the eighth year of his reign. 







###### 13 



He also brought out from there all the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the king's house, and he smashed all the articles of gold that Solomon king of Israel had made in the temple of the LORD, just as the LORD had said. 







###### 14 



Then he led into exile all _the people of_ Jerusalem and all the commanders and all the valiant warriors, ten thousand exiles, and all the craftsmen and the smiths. None were left except the poorest people of the land. 







###### 15 



So he led Jehoiachin into exile to Babylon; also the king's mother, the king's wives, and his officials and the leading men of the land, he led into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon. 







###### 16 



And all the valiant men, seven thousand, and the craftsmen and the smiths, a thousand, all strong _and_ fit for war, these too the king of Babylon brought into exile to Babylon. ## Zedekiah Made King 







###### 17 



Then the king of Babylon made [^c]his uncle Mattaniah king in his place, and changed his name to Zedekiah. 







###### 18 



Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned for eleven years in Jerusalem; and his mother's name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah. 







###### 19 



He did evil in the sight of the LORD, in accordance with everything that Jehoiakim had done. 







###### 20 



For _it was_ due to the anger of the LORD _that this_ happened in Jerusalem and Judah, until He cast them out of His presence. And Zedekiah revolted against the king of Babylon. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Kings 24:3 Lit _mouth_ [^b]: 2 Kings 24:6 I.e., died [^c]: 2 Kings 24:17 I.e., Jehoiachin’s uncle
