---
Aliases: [2 Kings 10]
previous: ['2 Kgs 9']
up: ['2 Kings']
next: ['2 Kgs 11']
---
# 2 Kings 10

***








###### 1 



Now Ahab had seventy sons in Samaria. And Jehu wrote letters and sent _them_ to Samaria, to the officials of Jezreel, the elders, and to the guardians of _the children of_ Ahab, saying, 







###### 2 



"And now, when this letter comes to you, since your master's sons are with you, [^a]as well as the chariots and horses, and a fortified city and the weapons, 







###### 3 



select the best and most capable of your master's sons and seat _him_ on his father's throne, and fight for your master's house." 







###### 4 



But they feared greatly and said, "Behold, the two kings did not stand _firm_ before him; how then can we stand?" 







###### 5 



And the one who _was_ in charge of the household, and the one who _was_ in charge of the city, and the elders, and the guardians of _the children_, sent _word_ to Jehu, saying, "We are your servants, and everything that you tell us we will do. We will not appoint any man king; do what is good in your sight." 







###### 6 



Then he wrote them a letter a second time, saying, "If you are on my side, and will listen to my voice, take the heads of the men, your master's sons, and come to me at Jezreel about this time tomorrow." Now the king's sons, seventy men, _were_ with the great people of the city, _who_ were raising them. 







###### 7 



When the letter came to them, they took the king's sons and slaughtered _them_, seventy men, and put their heads in baskets, and sent _them_ to him at Jezreel. 







###### 8 



When the messenger came and informed him, saying, "They have brought the heads of the king's sons," he said, "Put them in two heaps at the entrance of the gate until morning." 







###### 9 



Now in the morning he went out and stood and said to all the people, "You are [^b]innocent; behold, I conspired against my master and killed him, but who [^c]killed all these? 







###### 10 



Know then that nothing of the word of the LORD, which the LORD spoke concerning the house of Ahab, shall [^d]fall to the earth, for the LORD has done what He spoke [^e]through His servant Elijah." 







###### 11 



So Jehu [^f]killed all who remained of the house of Ahab in Jezreel, and all his great men, his acquaintances, and his priests, until he left him without a survivor. 







###### 12 



Then he set out and [^g]went to Samaria. On the way while he was at [^h]Beth-eked of the shepherds, 







###### 13 



Jehu [^i]encountered the relatives of Ahaziah king of Judah, and he said, "Who are you?" And they [^j]answered, "We are the relatives of Ahaziah; and we have come down to greet the sons of the king and the sons of the queen mother." 







###### 14 



Then he said, "Take them alive." So they took them alive, and slaughtered them at the pit of Beth-eked, forty-two men; and he left none of them. 







###### 15 



Now when he had gone from there, he [^k]encountered Jehonadab the son of Rechab _coming_ to meet him; and he [^l]greeted him and said to him, "Is your heart right, just as my heart _is_ with your heart?" And Jehonadab [^m]answered, "It is." _Jehu said_, "If it is, give _me_ your hand." And he gave _him_ his hand, and he pulled him up to him into the chariot. 







###### 16 



Then he said, "Come with me and see my zeal for the LORD." So [^n]he had him ride in his chariot. 







###### 17 



When he came to Samaria, he [^o]killed all who remained to Ahab in Samaria, until he had eliminated [^p]them, in accordance with the word of the LORD which He spoke to Elijah. ## Jehu Destroys Baal Worshipers 







###### 18 



Then Jehu gathered all the people and said to them, "Ahab served Baal a little; Jehu will serve him much. 







###### 19 



Now, summon to me all the prophets of Baal, all his worshipers and all his priests; let no one go missing, because I have a great sacrifice for Baal; whoever is missing shall not live." But Jehu did it in deception, in order to eliminate the worshipers of Baal. 







###### 20 



And Jehu said, "Proclaim a holy assembly for Baal." And they proclaimed _it_. 







###### 21 



Then Jehu sent _word_ [^q]throughout Israel, and all the worshipers of Baal came, so that there was not a person left who did not come. And when they entered the house of Baal, the house of Baal was filled from one end to the other. 







###### 22 



And he said to the one who _was_ [^r]in charge of the wardrobe, "Bring out garments for all the worshipers of Baal." So he brought out the garments for them. 







###### 23 



Then Jehu entered the house of Baal with Jehonadab the son of Rechab; and he said to the worshipers of Baal, "Search carefully and see to it that there is here with you none of the servants of the LORD, but only the worshipers of Baal." 







###### 24 



Then they entered to [^s]offer sacrifices and burnt offerings. Now Jehu had stationed for himself eighty men outside, and he had said, "The one who allows any of the men whom I bring into your hands to escape [^t]shall give up his life in exchange." 







###### 25 



Then it came about, as soon as he had finished [^u]offering the burnt offering, that Jehu said to the [^v]guard and to the royal officers, "Go in, [^w]kill them; let none come out." So they [^x]killed them with the edge of the sword; and the [^y]guard and the royal officers threw _them_ out, and went to the [^z]sanctuary of the house of Baal. 







###### 26 



They brought out the memorial stones of the house of Baal and burned them. 







###### 27 



They also tore down the memorial stone of Baal and tore down the house of Baal, and made it a latrine _as it is_ to this day. 







###### 28 



So Jehu eradicated Baal from Israel. 







###### 29 



However, _as for_ the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, into which he misled Israel, from these Jehu did not desist, _including_ the golden calves that _were_ at Bethel and at Dan. 







###### 30 



Yet the LORD said to Jehu, "Because you have done well in performing what is right in My eyes, _and_ have done to the house of Ahab in accordance with everything that _was_ in My heart, your sons to the fourth _generation_ shall sit on the throne of Israel." 







###### 31 



But Jehu was not careful to walk in the Law of the LORD, the God of Israel, with all his heart; he did not desist from the sins of Jeroboam, into which he misled Israel. 







###### 32 



In those days the LORD began to cut off _pieces_ from Israel; and Hazael [^aa]defeated _them_ throughout the territory of Israel: 







###### 33 



from the Jordan eastward, all the land of Gilead, the Gadites, the Reubenites, and the Manassites; from Aroer, which is by the Valley of the Arnon, that is, Gilead and Bashan. ## Jehoahaz Succeeds Jehu 







###### 34 



Now _as for_ the rest of the acts of Jehu and everything that he did and all his might, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel? 







###### 35 



And Jehu [^ab]lay down with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria. And his son Jehoahaz became king in his place. 







###### 36 



So the [^ac]time which Jehu reigned over Israel in Samaria _was_ twenty-eight years. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Kings 10:2 Lit _and with you the_ [^b]: 2 Kings 10:9 Lit _righteous_ [^c]: 2 Kings 10:9 Lit _struck_ [^d]: 2 Kings 10:10 I.e., fail to come true [^e]: 2 Kings 10:10 Lit _by the hand of_ [^f]: 2 Kings 10:11 Lit _struck_ [^g]: 2 Kings 10:12 Lit _came in and went_ [^h]: 2 Kings 10:12 I.e., house of binding [^i]: 2 Kings 10:13 Lit _found_ [^j]: 2 Kings 10:13 Lit _said_ [^k]: 2 Kings 10:15 Lit _found_ [^l]: 2 Kings 10:15 Lit _blessed_ [^m]: 2 Kings 10:15 Lit _said_ [^n]: 2 Kings 10:16 Lit _they_ [^o]: 2 Kings 10:17 Lit _struck_ [^p]: 2 Kings 10:17 Lit _him_ [^q]: 2 Kings 10:21 Lit _in all_ [^r]: 2 Kings 10:22 Lit _over the_ [^s]: 2 Kings 10:24 Lit _make_ [^t]: 2 Kings 10:24 Lit _his soul for his soul_ [^u]: 2 Kings 10:25 Lit _making_ [^v]: 2 Kings 10:25 Lit _runners_ [^w]: 2 Kings 10:25 Lit _strike_ [^x]: 2 Kings 10:25 Lit _struck_ [^y]: 2 Kings 10:25 Lit _runners_ [^z]: 2 Kings 10:25 Lit _city_ [^aa]: 2 Kings 10:32 Lit _struck_ [^ab]: 2 Kings 10:35 I.e., died [^ac]: 2 Kings 10:36 Lit _days_
