---
Aliases: [2 Kings 19]
previous: ['2 Kgs 18']
up: ['2 Kings']
next: ['2 Kgs 20']
---
# 2 Kings 19

***








###### 1 



Now when King Hezekiah heard _the report_, he tore his clothes, covered himself with sackcloth, and entered the house of the LORD. 







###### 2 



Then he sent Eliakim, who was in charge of the household, with Shebna the scribe and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz. 







###### 3 



And they said to him, "This is what Hezekiah says: 'This day is a day of distress, rebuke, and humiliation; for children have come to the point of birth, and there is no strength to deliver _them_. 







###### 4 



Perhaps the LORD your God will hear all the words of Rabshakeh, whom his master the king of Assyria has sent to taunt the living God, and will avenge the words which the LORD your God has heard. Therefore, offer a prayer for the remnant that is [^a]left.'" 







###### 5 



So the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah. 







###### 6 



And Isaiah said to them, "This is what you shall say to your master: 'The LORD says this: "Do not be fearful because of the words that you have heard, with which the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed Me. 







###### 7 



Behold, I am going to put a spirit in him so that he will hear news and return to his own land. And I will make him fall by the sword in his own land."'" ## Sennacherib Defies God 







###### 8 



Then Rabshakeh returned and found the king of Assyria fighting against Libnah, for he had heard that _the king_ had left Lachish. 







###### 9 



When he heard _them_ say about Tirhakah king of [^b]Cush, "Behold, he has come out to fight you," he sent messengers again to Hezekiah, saying, 







###### 10 



"This is what you shall say to Hezekiah king of [^c]Judah: 'Do not let your God in whom you trust deceive you by saying, "Jerusalem will not be handed over to the king of Assyria." 







###### 11 



Behold, you yourself have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all the lands, destroying them completely. So will you be saved? 







###### 12 



Did the gods of the nations which my fathers destroyed save them: Gozan, Haran, Rezeph, and the sons of Eden who _were_ in Telassar? 







###### 13 



Where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad, the king of the city of Sepharvaim, and _of_ Hena and Ivvah?'" ## Hezekiah's Prayer 







###### 14 



Then Hezekiah took the [^d]letter from the hand of the messengers and read it, and he went up to the house of the LORD and [^e]spread it out before the LORD. 







###### 15 



Hezekiah prayed before the LORD and said, "LORD, God of Israel, [^f]enthroned _above_ the cherubim, You are the God, You alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth. You have made heaven and earth. 







###### 16 



Incline Your ear, LORD, and hear; open Your eyes, LORD, and see; and listen to the words of Sennacherib, which he has sent to taunt the living God. 







###### 17 



It is true, LORD; the kings of Assyria have laid waste the nations and their lands, 







###### 18 



and have [^g]hurled their gods into the fire; for they were not gods, but _only_ the work of human hands, wood and stone. So they have destroyed them. 







###### 19 



But now, LORD our God, please, save us from his hand, so that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that You alone, LORD, are God." ## God's Answer through Isaiah 







###### 20 



Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent _word_ to Hezekiah, saying, "This is what the LORD, the God of Israel says: 'Because you have prayed to Me about Sennacherib king of Assyria, I have heard _you_.' 







###### 21 



This is the word that the LORD has spoken against him: 'She, the virgin daughter of Zion, has shown contempt for you _and_ mocked you; She, the daughter of Jerusalem, has shaken _her_ head behind you! 







###### 22 



Whom have you taunted and blasphemed? And against whom have you raised _your_ voice, And [^h]haughtily raised your eyes? Against the Holy One of Israel! 







###### 23 



Through your messengers you have taunted the Lord, And you have said, "With my many chariots I went up to the heights of the mountains, To the remotest parts of Lebanon; And I cut down its tall cedars _and_ its choicest junipers. And I entered its farthest resting place, its thickest forest. 







###### 24 



I dug _wells_ and drank foreign waters, And with the soles of my feet I dried up All the streams of Egypt." 







###### 25 



'Have you not heard? Long ago I did it; From ancient times I planned it. Now I have brought it about, That you would turn fortified cities into ruined heaps. 







###### 26 



Therefore their inhabitants were [^i]powerless, They were shattered and put to shame. They were _like_ the vegetation of the field and the green grass, _Like_ grass on the housetops that is scorched before it has grown. 







###### 27 



But I know your sitting down, Your going out, your coming in, And your raging against Me. 







###### 28 



Because of your raging against Me, And because your complacency has come up to My ears, I will put My hook in your nose, And My bridle in your lips, And I will turn you back by the way by which you came. 







###### 29 



'Then this shall be the sign for you: [^j]you will eat this year what grows of itself, in the second year what grows by itself, and in the third year sow, harvest, plant vineyards, and eat their fruit. 







###### 30 



The survivors that are left of the house of Judah will again _take_ root downward and bear fruit upward. 







###### 31 



For out of Jerusalem will go a remnant, and survivors out of Mount Zion. The zeal of [^k]the LORD will perform this. 







###### 32 



'Therefore this is what the LORD says about the king of Assyria: "He will not come to this city nor shoot an arrow there; and he will not come before it with a shield nor heap up an assault ramp against it. 







###### 33 



By the way that he came, by [^l]the same he will return, and he shall not come to this city,"' declares the LORD. 







###### 34 



'For I will protect this city to save it for My own sake, and for My servant David's sake.'" 







###### 35 



Then it happened that night that the angel of the LORD went out and struck 185,000 in the camp of the Assyrians; and when _the rest_ got up early in the morning, behold, all of [^m]the 185,000 were [^n]dead. 







###### 36 



So Sennacherib the king of Assyria departed and [^o]returned _home_, and lived at Nineveh. 







###### 37 



Then it came about, as he was worshiping in the house of Nisroch his god, that [^p]Adrammelech and Sharezer killed him with the sword; and they escaped to the land of Ararat. And his son Esarhaddon became king in his place. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 2 Kings 19:4 Lit _found_ [^b]: 2 Kings 19:9 Or _Ethiopia_ [^c]: 2 Kings 19:10 Lit _Judah, saying,_ [^d]: 2 Kings 19:14 Lit _letters...read them_ [^e]: 2 Kings 19:14 Lit _Hezekiah spread_ [^f]: 2 Kings 19:15 Lit _sitting_ [^g]: 2 Kings 19:18 Lit _given_ [^h]: 2 Kings 19:22 Lit _on high_ [^i]: 2 Kings 19:26 Lit _short of hand_ [^j]: 2 Kings 19:29 Lit _to eat_ [^k]: 2 Kings 19:31 Some ancient mss _the _Lord_ of armies_ [^l]: 2 Kings 19:33 Lit _it_ [^m]: 2 Kings 19:35 Lit _them_ [^n]: 2 Kings 19:35 Lit _dead bodies_ [^o]: 2 Kings 19:36 Lit _went and returned_ [^p]: 2 Kings 19:37 Some ancient mss _his sons Adrammelech_
