---
Aliases: [1 Chronicles 25]
previous: ['1 Chr 24']
up: ['1 Chronicles']
next: ['1 Chr 26']
---
# 1 Chronicles 25

***




















###### 1 









David, together with the commanders of the army, set apart some of the sons of Asaph, Heman and Jeduthun for the ministry of prophesying, accompanied by harps, lyres and cymbals. Here is the list of the men who performed this service: 



















###### 2 









From the sons of Asaph: Zakkur, Joseph, Nethaniah and Asarelah. The sons of Asaph were under the supervision of Asaph, who prophesied under the king's supervision. 



















###### 3 









As for Jeduthun, from his sons: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Shimei,[^a] Hashabiah and Mattithiah, six in all, under the supervision of their father Jeduthun, who prophesied, using the harp in thanking and praising the LORD. 



















###### 4 









As for Heman, from his sons: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shubael and Jerimoth; Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti and Romamti-Ezer; Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir and Mahazioth. 



















###### 5 









(All these were sons of Heman the king's seer. They were given him through the promises of God to exalt him. God gave Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.) 



















###### 6 









All these men were under the supervision of their father for the music of the temple of the LORD, with cymbals, lyres and harps, for the ministry at the house of God. Asaph, Jeduthun and Heman were under the supervision of the king. 



















###### 7 









Along with their relatives--all of them trained and skilled in music for the LORD--they numbered 288. 



















###### 8 









Young and old alike, teacher as well as student, cast lots for their duties. NIV Reverse Interlinear Bible: English to Hebrew and English to Greek. Copyright © 2019 by Zondervan. ## More on the NIV ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Chronicles 25:3 One Hebrew manuscript and some Septuagint manuscripts (see also verse 17); most Hebrew manuscripts do not have _Shimei._ [^b]: 1 Chronicles 25:9 See Septuagint; Hebrew does not have _his sons and relatives._ [^c]: 1 Chronicles 25:9 See the total in verse 7; Hebrew does not have _twelve._ [^d]: 1 Chronicles 25:11 A variant of _Zeri_ [^e]: 1 Chronicles 25:14 A variant of _Asarelah_ [^f]: 1 Chronicles 25:18 A variant of _Uzziel_
