---
Aliases: [1 Kings 22]
previous: ['1 Kgs 21']
up: ['1 Kings']
---
# 1 Kings 22

***








###### 1 



Now [^a]three years passed without war between Aram and Israel. 







###### 2 



In the third year, Jehoshaphat the king of Judah came down to the king of Israel. 







###### 3 



Now the king of Israel said to his servants, "Are you aware that Ramoth-gilead belongs to us, yet we are hesitant to take it out of the hand of the king of Aram?" 







###### 4 



So he said to Jehoshaphat, "Will you go to battle with me at Ramoth-gilead?" And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, "[^b]Consider me yours, my people yours, and my horses yours!" 







###### 5 



However, Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, "Please request the word of the LORD [^c]first." 







###### 6 



So the king of Israel assembled the [^d]prophets, about four hundred men, and said to them, "Should I go to battle against Ramoth-gilead or should I refrain?" And they said, "Go up, for the Lord will hand _it_ over to the king." 







###### 7 



But Jehoshaphat said, "Is there no longer a prophet of the LORD here, that we may inquire of him?" 







###### 8 



And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "There is still one man by whom we may inquire of the LORD, but I hate him, because he does not prophesy _anything_ good regarding me, but _only_ bad. _He is_ Micaiah the son of Imlah." But Jehoshaphat said, "May the king not say so." 







###### 9 



Then the king of Israel summoned an officer and said, "Bring Micaiah son of Imlah quickly." 







###### 10 



Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah were sitting, each on his throne, dressed in _their_ robes, at the threshing floor at the entrance of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets were prophesying before them. 







###### 11 



Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made horns of iron for himself and said, "This is what the LORD says: 'With these you will gore the Arameans until they are destroyed!'" 







###### 12 



All the prophets were prophesying this as well, saying, "Go up to Ramoth-gilead and succeed, for the LORD will hand _it_ over to the king." ## Micaiah Predicts Defeat 







###### 13 



Then the messenger who went to summon Micaiah spoke to him saying, "Behold now, the words of the prophets are [^e]unanimously favorable to the king. Please let your word be like the word of one of them, and speak favorably." 







###### 14 



But Micaiah said, "As the LORD lives, whatever the LORD says to me, I shall speak it." 







###### 15 



When he came to the king, the king said to him, "Micaiah, should we go to battle against Ramoth-gilead, or should we refrain?" And he said, "Go up and succeed, for the LORD will hand _it_ over to the king!" 







###### 16 



Then the king said to him, "How many times must I make you swear that you will tell me nothing but the truth in the name of the LORD?" 







###### 17 



So he said, "I saw all Israel Scattered on the mountains, Like sheep that have no shepherd. And the LORD said, 'These _people_ have no master. Each of them is to return to his house in peace.'" 







###### 18 



Then the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "Did I not tell you that he would not prophesy _anything_ good regarding me, but _only_ bad?" 







###### 19 



And _Micaiah_ said, "Therefore, hear the word of the LORD. I saw the LORD sitting on His throne, and all the [^f]angels of heaven standing by Him on His right and on His left. 







###### 20 



And the LORD said, 'Who will [^g]entice Ahab to go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead?' And one _spirit_ said this, while another said that. 







###### 21 



Then a spirit came forward and stood before the LORD, and said, 'I will [^h]entice him.' 







###### 22 



And the LORD said to him, 'How?' And he said, 'I will go out and be a deceiving spirit in the mouths of all his prophets.' Then He said, 'You shall [^i]entice _him_, and you will also prevail. Go and do so.' 







###### 23 



Now then, behold, the LORD has put a deceiving spirit in the mouth of all these prophets of yours; and the LORD has declared disaster against you." 







###### 24 



Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah approached and struck Micaiah on the cheek; and he said, "How did the Spirit of the LORD pass from me to speak to you?" 







###### 25 



And Micaiah said, "Behold, you are going to see _how_ on that day when you go _from one_ inner room to [^j]another _trying_ to hide yourself." 







###### 26 



Then the king of Israel said, "Take Micaiah and return him to Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the king's son; 







###### 27 



and say, 'This is what the king says: "Put this _man_ in prison, and feed him enough bread and water to survive until I [^k]return safely."'" 







###### 28 



But Micaiah said, "If you actually return [^l]safely, the LORD has not spoken by me." And he said, "Listen, all you people!" ## Defeat and Death of Ahab 







###### 29 



So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah went up _against_ Ramoth-gilead. 







###### 30 



And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "I will disguise myself and go into the battle, but you put on your robes." So the king of Israel disguised himself and went into the battle. 







###### 31 



Now the king of Aram had commanded the thirty-two commanders of his chariots, saying, "Do not fight with the small _or_ great, but only with the king of Israel." 







###### 32 



So when the commanders of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, they said, "Surely he is the king of Israel!" And they turned aside to fight against him, and Jehoshaphat cried out. 







###### 33 



Then, when the commanders of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back from pursuing him. 







###### 34 



Now one man drew his bow at random and struck the king of Israel [^m]in a joint of the armor. So he said to the driver of his chariot, "Turn [^n]around and take me out of the battle, for I am severely wounded." 







###### 35 



The battle [^o]raged on that day, and the king was propped up in his chariot in front of the Arameans, and he died at evening, and the blood from the wound ran into the bottom of the chariot. 







###### 36 



Then the word passed throughout the army close to sunset, saying, "Every man to his city, and every man to his [^p]country!" 







###### 37 



So the king died and was brought to Samaria, and they buried the king in Samaria. 







###### 38 



They washed out the chariot by the pool of Samaria, and the dogs licked up his blood (_it was there that_ the prostitutes bathed themselves) in accordance with the word of the LORD which He had spoken. 







###### 39 



Now _as for_ the rest of the acts of Ahab and everything that he did, and the ivory house which he built and all the cities which he built, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel? 







###### 40 



So Ahab [^q]lay down with his fathers, and his son Ahaziah became king in his place. ## The New Rulers 







###### 41 



Now Jehoshaphat the son of Asa became king over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab king of Israel. 







###### 42 



Jehoshaphat was thirty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned for twenty-five years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi. 







###### 43 



He walked [^r]entirely in the way of his father Asa; he did not turn aside from it, doing what was right in the sight of the LORD. However, the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. 







###### 44 



Jehoshaphat also made peace with the king of Israel. 







###### 45 



Now _as for_ the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, and his might which he showed and how he made war, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? 







###### 46 



And the remnant of the cult prostitutes who remained in the days of his father Asa, he eliminated from the land. 







###### 47 



Now there was no king in Edom; a governor _served as_ king. 







###### 48 



Jehoshaphat built ships of Tarshish to go to Ophir for gold, but they did not go, because the ships were destroyed at Ezion-geber. 







###### 49 



Then Ahaziah the son of Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, "Let my servants go with your servants in the ships." But Jehoshaphat was not willing. 







###### 50 



And Jehoshaphat [^s]lay down with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of his father David, and his son Jehoram became king in his place. 







###### 51 



Ahaziah the son of Ahab became king over Israel in Samaria in the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and he reigned over Israel for two years. 







###### 52 



He did evil in the sight of the LORD and walked in the way of his father and in the way of his mother, and in the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who misled Israel into sin. 







###### 53 



So he served Baal and worshiped him, and provoked the LORD God of Israel to anger, according to all that his father had done. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Kings 22:1 Lit _they sat for three years_ [^b]: 1 Kings 22:4 Lit _As me as you, as my people...as my horses, as your horses_, an ancient idiom [^c]: 1 Kings 22:5 Lit _today_ [^d]: 1 Kings 22:6 I.e., official prophets who at that time were false [^e]: 1 Kings 22:13 Lit _of one mouth_ [^f]: 1 Kings 22:19 Lit _host_ [^g]: 1 Kings 22:20 Or _persuade_ [^h]: 1 Kings 22:21 Or _persuade_ [^i]: 1 Kings 22:22 Or _persuade_ [^j]: 1 Kings 22:25 Lit _inner room_ [^k]: 1 Kings 22:27 Lit _come in peace_ [^l]: 1 Kings 22:28 Lit _in peace_ [^m]: 1 Kings 22:34 Lit _between the scales and the scale armor_ [^n]: 1 Kings 22:34 Lit _your hand_ [^o]: 1 Kings 22:35 Lit _went up_ [^p]: 1 Kings 22:36 Lit _land_ [^q]: 1 Kings 22:40 I.e., died [^r]: 1 Kings 22:43 Lit _in all the way of_ [^s]: 1 Kings 22:50 I.e., died
