---
Aliases: [1 Kings 17]
previous: ['1 Kgs 16']
up: ['1 Kings']
next: ['1 Kgs 18']
---
# 1 Kings 17

***








###### 1 



Now Elijah the Tishbite, who was of [^a]the settlers of Gilead, said to Ahab, "As the LORD, the God of Israel lives, before whom I stand, there shall certainly be neither dew nor rain _during_ these years, except by my word." 







###### 2 



Then the word of the LORD came to him, saying, 







###### 3 



"Go _away_ from here and turn eastward, and hide yourself by the brook Cherith, which is [^b]east of the Jordan. 







###### 4 



And it shall be that you will drink from the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to provide food for you there." 







###### 5 



So he went and did _everything_ according to the word of the LORD, for he went and lived by the brook Cherith, which is [^c]east of the Jordan. 







###### 6 



And the ravens brought him bread and meat in the morning and bread and meat in the evening, and he would drink from the brook. 







###### 7 



But it happened after a while that the brook dried up, because there was no rain in the land. 







###### 8 



Then the word of the LORD came to him, saying, 







###### 9 



"Arise, go to Zarephath, which belongs to Sidon, and stay there; behold, I have commanded a widow there to provide food for you." 







###### 10 



So he arose and went to Zarephath, and when he came to the entrance of the city, behold, a widow was there gathering sticks; and he called to her and said, "Please get me a little water in a [^d]cup, so that I may drink." 







###### 11 



As she was going to get _it_, he called to her and said, "Please bring me a piece of bread in your hand." 







###### 12 



But she said, "As the LORD your God lives, I have no food, only a handful of flour in the [^e]bowl and a little oil in the jar; and behold, I am gathering [^f]a few sticks so that I may go in and prepare it for me and my son, so that we may [^g]eat it and die." 







###### 13 



However, Elijah said to her, "Do not fear; go, do as you have said. Just make me a little bread loaf from [^h]it first and bring _it_ out to me, and afterward you may make _one_ for yourself and for your son. 







###### 14 



For this is what the LORD, the God of Israel says: 'The [^i]bowl of flour shall not be used up, nor shall the jar of oil become empty, until the day that the LORD provides rain on the face of the earth.'" 







###### 15 



So she went and did _everything_ in accordance with the word of Elijah, and she and he and her household ate for _many_ days. 







###### 16 



The [^j]bowl of flour was not used up, nor did the jar of oil become empty, in accordance with the word of the LORD which He spoke through Elijah. ## Elijah Raises the Widow's Son 







###### 17 



Now it happened after these things that the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, became sick; and his [^k]condition became very grave, until _at the end_ [^l]he was no longer breathing. 







###### 18 



So she said to Elijah, "[^m]Why is my _business any of_ yours, you man of God? _Yet_ you have come to me to bring my wrongdoing to remembrance, and to put my son to death!" 







###### 19 



But he said to her, "Give me your son." Then he took him from her [^n]arms and carried him up to the upstairs room where he was living, and laid him on his own bed. 







###### 20 



And he called to the LORD and said, "LORD, my God, have You also brought catastrophe upon the widow with whom I am [^o]staying, by causing her son to die?" 







###### 21 



Then he stretched himself out over the boy three times, and called to the LORD and said, "LORD, my God, please, let this boy's life return [^p]to him." 







###### 22 



And the LORD listened to the voice of Elijah, and the life of the boy returned [^q]to him and he revived. 







###### 23 



Elijah then took the boy and brought him down from the upstairs room into the house and gave him to his mother; and Elijah said, "See, your son is alive." 







###### 24 



Then the woman said to Elijah, "Now I know that you are a man of God, and that the word of the LORD in your mouth is truth." ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Kings 17:1 Another reading is _Tishbe in Gilead_ [^b]: 1 Kings 17:3 Lit _facing_ [^c]: 1 Kings 17:5 Lit _facing_ [^d]: 1 Kings 17:10 Lit _vessel_ [^e]: 1 Kings 17:12 Lit _pitcher_ [^f]: 1 Kings 17:12 Lit _two_ [^g]: 1 Kings 17:12 I.e., have their last meal [^h]: 1 Kings 17:13 Lit _there_ [^i]: 1 Kings 17:14 Lit _pitcher_ [^j]: 1 Kings 17:16 Lit _pitcher_ [^k]: 1 Kings 17:17 Lit _illness_ [^l]: 1 Kings 17:17 Lit _breath was not left in him_ [^m]: 1 Kings 17:18 Lit _What to me and to you_, an ancient idiom [^n]: 1 Kings 17:19 Lit _breast_ [^o]: 1 Kings 17:20 Lit _sojourning_ [^p]: 1 Kings 17:21 Lit _upon his inward part_ [^q]: 1 Kings 17:22 Lit _upon his inward part_
