---
Aliases: [1 Kings 10]
previous: ['1 Kgs 9']
up: ['1 Kings']
next: ['1 Kgs 11']
---
# 1 Kings 10

***








###### 1 



Now when the queen of Sheba heard about the fame of Solomon _in relation_ to the name of the LORD, she came to test him with riddles. 







###### 2 



So she came to Jerusalem with a very large entourage, with camels carrying balsam oil and a very large _quantity of_ gold and precious stones. When she came to Solomon, she spoke to him about everything that was in her heart. 







###### 3 



And Solomon [^a]answered all her questions; nothing was concealed from the king which he did not explain to her. 







###### 4 



When the queen of Sheba saw all the wisdom of Solomon, and the house that he had built, 







###### 5 



and the food of his table, the seating of his servants, the service of his waiters and their attire, his cupbearers, and his burnt offerings which he offered at the house of the LORD, [^b]she was breathless. 







###### 6 



Then she said to the king, "It was a true [^c]story that I heard in my own land about your words and your wisdom. 







###### 7 



But I did not believe the [^d]stories until I came and my _own_ eyes saw _it all_. And behold, the half _of it_ was not reported to me. You have exceeded _in_ wisdom and prosperity the report which I heard. 







###### 8 



Blessed are your men, _and_ blessed are these servants of yours who stand before you continually _and_ hear your wisdom! 







###### 9 



Blessed be the LORD your God who delighted in you to put you on the throne of Israel; because the LORD loves Israel forever, He made you king, to do justice and righteousness." 







###### 10 



Then she gave the king [^e]120 talents of gold, and a very large _amount_ of balsam oil and precious stones. Never again did such a large quantity of balsam oil come in as that which the queen of Sheba gave King Solomon. 







###### 11 



And the ships of Hiram as well, which brought gold from Ophir, brought in from Ophir a very great _number of_ almug trees and precious stones. 







###### 12 



The king made from the almug trees supports for the house of the LORD and for the king's house, and lyres and harps for the singers; such almug trees have not come in _again_, nor have they been seen to this day. 







###### 13 



And King Solomon granted the queen of Sheba everything she desired, whatever she requested, besides what he gave her in proportion to [^f]his royal bounty. Then she [^g]departed and went to her own land [^h]together with her servants. ## Wealth, Splendor, and Wisdom 







###### 14 



Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was [^i]666 talents of gold, 







###### 15 



besides _that_ from the traders, and the [^j]wares of the merchants and all the kings of the Arabs and the governors of the country. 







###### 16 



King Solomon made two hundred large shields of beaten gold, [^k]using six hundred _shekels of_ gold on each large shield. 







###### 17 



And _he made_ three hundred _small_ shields of beaten gold, [^l]using [^m]three minas of gold on each shield; and the king put them in the house of the timber of Lebanon. 







###### 18 



Moreover, the king made a large throne of ivory and overlaid it with fine gold. 







###### 19 



_There were_ six steps to the throne and a round top to the throne at its back, and [^n]armrests [^o]on each side of the seat, and two lions standing beside the [^p]armrests. 







###### 20 



Twelve lions were standing there on the six steps on the one side and on the other; nothing like _it_ was made for [^q]any other kingdom. 







###### 21 



Now all King Solomon's drinking utensils _were_ of gold, and all the utensils of the house of the timber of Lebanon _were_ of pure gold. None was of silver; it was not considered _as amounting to_ anything in the days of Solomon. 







###### 22 



For the king had the ships of Tarshish at sea with Hiram's ships; once every three years the ships of Tarshish would come carrying gold and silver, ivory, monkeys, and peacocks. 







###### 23 



So King Solomon became greater than all the kings of the earth in wealth and wisdom. 







###### 24 



And all the earth was seeking the [^r]attention of Solomon, to hear his wisdom, which God had put in his heart. 







###### 25 



And they were bringing, everyone, [^s]a gift: articles of silver and gold, garments, weapons, balsam oil, horses, and mules, so much year by year. 







###### 26 



Now Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen; and he had 1,400 chariots and twelve thousand horsemen, and he [^t]stationed them in the chariot cities and with the king in Jerusalem. 







###### 27 



And the king made silver _as common_ as stones in Jerusalem, and he made cedars as plentiful as sycamore trees that are in the [^u]lowland. 







###### 28 



Also Solomon's import of horses was from Egypt and Kue, _and_ the king's merchants acquired _them_ from Kue for a price. 







###### 29 



A chariot [^v]was imported from Egypt for six hundred _shekels_ of silver, and a horse for 150; and [^w]by the same means they exported them to all the kings of the Hittites and to the kings of the Arameans. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Kings 10:3 Lit _told her all her words_ [^b]: 1 Kings 10:5 Lit _there was no more breath in her_ [^c]: 1 Kings 10:6 Lit _word_ [^d]: 1 Kings 10:7 Lit _words_ [^e]: 1 Kings 10:10 About 4.5 tons or 4 metric tons [^f]: 1 Kings 10:13 Lit _the hand of King Solomon_ [^g]: 1 Kings 10:13 Lit _turned around_ [^h]: 1 Kings 10:13 Lit _she and her_ [^i]: 1 Kings 10:14 About 25 tons or 23 metric tons [^j]: 1 Kings 10:15 Or _traffic_ [^k]: 1 Kings 10:16 Lit _he brought up_ [^l]: 1 Kings 10:17 Lit _he brought up_ [^m]: 1 Kings 10:17 About 3.8 lb. or 1.7 kg [^n]: 1 Kings 10:19 Lit _hands_ [^o]: 1 Kings 10:19 Lit _from this and from this at the place of the seat_ [^p]: 1 Kings 10:19 Lit _hands_ [^q]: 1 Kings 10:20 Lit _all kingdoms_ [^r]: 1 Kings 10:24 Lit _face_ [^s]: 1 Kings 10:25 Lit _his gift_ [^t]: 1 Kings 10:26 As in ancient versions; MT _led_ [^u]: 1 Kings 10:27 Heb _Shephelah_ [^v]: 1 Kings 10:29 Lit _came up and went out from_ [^w]: 1 Kings 10:29 Lit _in the same way by their hand_
