---
Aliases: [1 Kings 11]
previous: ['1 Kgs 10']
up: ['1 Kings']
next: ['1 Kgs 12']
---
# 1 Kings 11

***








###### 1 



Now King Solomon loved many foreign women along with the daughter of Pharaoh: Moabite, Ammonite, Edomite, Sidonian, _and_ Hittite women, 







###### 2 



from the nations of which the LORD had said to the sons of Israel, "You shall not [^a]associate with them, nor shall they [^b]associate with you; they will certainly turn your heart away [^c]to follow their gods." Solomon clung to these in love. 







###### 3 



He had seven hundred wives, _who were_ [^d]princesses, and three hundred concubines; and his wives turned his heart away. 







###### 4 



For when Solomon was old, his wives turned his heart away [^e]to follow other gods; and his heart was not [^f]wholly devoted to the LORD his God, as the heart of his father David _had been_. 







###### 5 



For Solomon became a follower of Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, and of [^g]Milcom the abhorrent idol of the Ammonites. 







###### 6 



So Solomon did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, and did not follow the LORD fully, as his father David _had done_. 







###### 7 



Then Solomon built a high place for Chemosh, the abhorrent idol of Moab, on the mountain that is [^h]east of Jerusalem, and for Molech, the abhorrent idol of the sons of Ammon. 







###### 8 



He also did the same for all his foreign wives, who burned incense and sacrificed to their gods. 







###### 9 



Now the LORD was angry with Solomon because his heart had turned away from the LORD, the God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice, 







###### 10 



and had commanded him regarding this thing, that he was not to follow other gods; but he did not comply with what the LORD had commanded. 







###### 11 



So the LORD said to Solomon, "Since [^i]you have done this, and you have not kept My covenant and My statutes, which I have commanded you, I will certainly tear the kingdom away from you, and will give it to your servant. 







###### 12 



However, I will not do it in your days, _only_ for the sake of your father David; _but_ I will tear it away from the hand of your son. 







###### 13 



Yet I will not tear away all the kingdom, _but_ I will give one tribe to your son for the sake of My servant David, and for the sake of Jerusalem, which I have chosen." ## God Raises Adversaries 







###### 14 



Then the LORD raised up an adversary against Solomon, Hadad the Edomite; he was of the [^j]royal line in Edom. 







###### 15 



For it came about, when David was in Edom and Joab the commander of the army had gone up to bury those killed _in battle_, and had struck and killed every male in Edom 







###### 16 



(for Joab and all Israel stayed there for six months, until he had eliminated every male in Edom), 







###### 17 



that Hadad fled [^k]to Egypt, he and certain Edomites of his father's servants with him, while Hadad _was_ a young boy. 







###### 18 



They set out from Midian and came to Paran; and they took men with them from Paran and came to Egypt, to Pharaoh king of Egypt, who gave him a house and assigned him food and gave him land. 







###### 19 



Now Hadad found great favor in the sight of Pharaoh, so that he gave him in marriage the sister of his own wife, the sister of Tahpenes the queen. 







###### 20 



And the sister of Tahpenes gave birth to his son Genubath, whom Tahpenes weaned in Pharaoh's house; and Genubath was in Pharaoh's house among the sons of Pharaoh. 







###### 21 



But when Hadad heard in Egypt that David [^l]lay down with his fathers and that Joab the commander of the army was dead, Hadad said to Pharaoh, "Let me go, so that I may go to my own country." 







###### 22 



However, Pharaoh said to him, "But what have you lacked with me that you are here, requesting to go to your own country?" And he answered, "Nothing; nevertheless you must let me go." 







###### 23 



God also raised up _another_ adversary against him, Rezon the son of Eliada, who had fled from his master Hadadezer, king of Zobah. 







###### 24 



And he gathered men to himself and became leader of a marauding band, after David killed those _of Zobah_; and they went to Damascus and stayed [^m]there, and reigned in Damascus. 







###### 25 



So he was an adversary to Israel all the days of Solomon, along with the harm that Hadad _inflicted_; and he felt disgust for Israel and reigned over Aram. 







###### 26 



Then Jeroboam the son of Nebat, an Ephraimite of Zeredah, Solomon's servant, whose mother's name was Zeruah, a widow, also [^n]rebelled against the king. 







###### 27 



Now this was the reason why he [^o]rebelled against the king: Solomon built the [^p]Millo, _and_ closed up the breach of the city of his father David. 







###### 28 



Now the man Jeroboam was a valiant warrior, and when Solomon saw that the young man was [^q]industrious, he appointed him over all the [^r]forced labor of the house of Joseph. 







###### 29 



And it came about at that time, when Jeroboam went out of Jerusalem, that the prophet Ahijah the Shilonite found him on the road. Now [^s]Ahijah had clothed himself with a new cloak; and both of them were alone in the field. 







###### 30 



Then Ahijah took hold of the new cloak which was on him and tore it into twelve pieces. 







###### 31 



And he said to Jeroboam, "Take for yourself ten pieces; for this is what the LORD, the God of Israel says: 'Behold, I am going to tear the kingdom away from the hand of Solomon and give you ten tribes 







###### 32 



(but he shall have one tribe, for the sake of My servant David and for the sake of Jerusalem, the city which I have chosen from all the tribes of Israel), 







###### 33 



because they have abandoned Me, and have worshiped Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, Chemosh the god of Moab, and Milcom the god of the sons of Ammon; and they have not walked in My ways, doing what is right in My sight and _keeping_ My statutes and My ordinances, as his father David _did_. 







###### 34 



Nevertheless I will not take the whole kingdom out of his hand, but I will make him ruler all the days of his life, for the sake of My servant David whom I chose, who kept My commandments and My statutes; 







###### 35 



but I will take the kingdom from his son's hand and give it to you; _that is_, ten tribes. 







###### 36 



But to his son I will give one tribe, so that My servant David may always have a lamp before Me in Jerusalem, the city where I have chosen for Myself to put My name. 







###### 37 



However I will take you, and you shall reign over all that [^t]you desire, and you shall be king over Israel. 







###### 38 



Then it shall be, that if you listen to all that I command you and walk in My ways, and do what is right in My sight by keeping My statutes and My commandments, as My servant David did, then I will be with you and build you an enduring house as I built for David, and I will give Israel to you. 







###### 39 



So I will oppress the [^u]descendants of David for this, but not always.'" 







###### 40 



Solomon sought therefore to put Jeroboam to death; but Jeroboam set out and fled to Egypt to Shishak king of Egypt, and he was in Egypt until the death of Solomon. ## The Death of Solomon 







###### 41 



Now the rest of the acts of Solomon and whatever he did, and his wisdom, are they not written in the Book of the Acts of Solomon? 







###### 42 



So the time that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel was forty years. 







###### 43 



Then Solomon [^v]lay down with his fathers and was buried in the city of his father David, and his son Rehoboam reigned in his place. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Kings 11:2 Lit _go among_ [^b]: 1 Kings 11:2 Lit _go among_ [^c]: 1 Kings 11:2 Lit _after their_ [^d]: 1 Kings 11:3 Or _women of rank_ [^e]: 1 Kings 11:4 Lit _after other_ [^f]: 1 Kings 11:4 Lit _complete with_ [^g]: 1 Kings 11:5 In Jer 49:1, 3, _Malcam_ [^h]: 1 Kings 11:7 Lit _before_ [^i]: 1 Kings 11:11 Lit _this has happened with you_ [^j]: 1 Kings 11:14 Lit _king’s seed_ [^k]: 1 Kings 11:17 Lit _to go into_ [^l]: 1 Kings 11:21 I.e., died [^m]: 1 Kings 11:24 Lit _in it_ [^n]: 1 Kings 11:26 Lit _lifted up a hand_ [^o]: 1 Kings 11:27 Lit _lifted up a hand_ [^p]: 1 Kings 11:27 I.e., terraced structure [^q]: 1 Kings 11:28 Lit _a performer of work_ [^r]: 1 Kings 11:28 Lit _burden of_ [^s]: 1 Kings 11:29 Lit _he_ [^t]: 1 Kings 11:37 Lit _your soul desires_ [^u]: 1 Kings 11:39 Lit _seed_ [^v]: 1 Kings 11:43 I.e., died
