---
Aliases: [1 Kings 20]
previous: ['1 Kgs 19']
up: ['1 Kings']
next: ['1 Kgs 21']
---
# 1 Kings 20

***








###### 1 



Now Ben-hadad, king of Aram, gathered all his army, and _there were_ thirty-two kings with him, and horses and chariots. And he went up and besieged Samaria, and fought against it. 







###### 2 



Then he sent messengers to the city to Ahab, king of Israel, and said to him, "This is what Ben-hadad says: 







###### 3 



'Your silver and your gold are mine; your most beautiful wives and children are also mine.'" 







###### 4 



And the king of Israel replied, "As [^a]you say, my lord, O king; I am yours, as well as all that I have." 







###### 5 



Then the messengers returned and said, "Ben-hadad says [^b]this: 'I did indeed send _word_ to you, saying, "You shall give me your silver, your gold, your wives, and your children"; 







###### 6 



but about this time tomorrow I will send my servants to you, and they will search your house and the houses of your servants; and they will take in their hands everything that is pleasing to your eyes, and take _it all_ away.'" 







###### 7 



Then the king of Israel summoned all the elders of the land and said, "Please be aware and see that this man is looking for trouble; for he sent me _his demand_ for my wives, my children, my silver, and my gold, and I did not refuse him." 







###### 8 



Then all the elders and all the people said to him, "Do not listen nor consent." 







###### 9 



So he said to the messengers of Ben-hadad, "Tell my lord the king, 'Everything that you sent _as a demand_ to your servant at the first, I will do; but this thing I cannot do.'" Then the messengers departed, and brought him word again. 







###### 10 



Ben-hadad sent _word_ to him and said, "May the gods do so to me and more so, [^c]if the dust of Samaria will be enough for handfuls for all the people who [^d]follow me." 







###### 11 



Then the king of Israel replied, "Tell _him_, 'He who straps on _his weapons_ had better not boast like one who takes _them_ off.'" 







###### 12 



And when _Ben-hadad_ heard this message, while he was drinking [^e]with the kings in the [^f]temporary shelters, he said to his servants, "Take _your_ positions." So they took _their_ positions against the city. ## Ahab Victorious 







###### 13 



Now behold, a prophet approached Ahab king of Israel, and said, "This is what the LORD says: 'Have you seen all this great multitude? Behold, I am going to hand them over to you today, and you shall know that I am the LORD.'" 







###### 14 



But Ahab said, "By whom?" So he said, "The LORD says this: 'By the young men of the leaders of the provinces.'" Then he said, "Who will begin the battle?" And he said, "You _will_." 







###### 15 



So he mustered the young men of the leaders of the provinces, and there were 232; and after them he mustered all the people, all the sons of Israel: seven thousand. 







###### 16 



They went out at noon, while Ben-hadad was drinking himself drunk in the [^g]temporary shelters [^h]with the thirty-two kings who were helping him. 







###### 17 



The young men of the leaders of the provinces went out first; and Ben-hadad sent out _scouts_, and they reported to him, saying, "Men have come out from Samaria." 







###### 18 



Then he said, "If they have come out [^i]for peace, take them alive; or if they have come out for war, take them alive _as well."_ 







###### 19 



So these _men_ went out from the city, the young men of the leaders of the provinces, and the army which followed them. 







###### 20 



And they [^j]killed, each one, his man; and the Arameans fled and Israel pursued them, and Ben-hadad the king of Aram escaped on a horse with horsemen. 







###### 21 



The king of Israel also went out and struck the horses and chariots, and [^k]killed the Arameans in a great slaughter. 







###### 22 



Then the prophet approached the king of Israel and said to him, "Go, show yourself courageous and be aware and see what you have to do; for at [^l]the turn of the year the king of Aram will march against you." 







###### 23 



Now the servants of the king of Aram said to him, "Their gods are gods of the mountains; for that reason they were stronger than we. But let us fight them in the plain, _and_ we will certainly be stronger than they. 







###### 24 



Carry out this [^m]plan: remove the kings, each from his place, and put governors in their place, 







###### 25 



and [^n]muster an army like the army that you have lost, horse for horse and chariot for chariot. Then we will fight against them in the plain, _and_ we will certainly be stronger than they." And he listened to their voice and did so. ## Another Aramean War 







###### 26 



So at [^o]the turn of the year Ben-hadad mustered the Arameans and went up to Aphek to fight against Israel. 







###### 27 



And the sons of Israel were mustered and given provisions, and they went to meet them; and the sons of Israel camped opposite them like two little flocks of goats, while the Arameans filled the country. 







###### 28 



Then a man of God approached and spoke to the king of Israel, and said, "This is what the LORD says: 'Since the Arameans have said, "The LORD is a god of mountains, but He is not a god of valleys," therefore I will hand over to you all this great multitude, and you shall know that I am the LORD.'" 







###### 29 



So they camped, one opposite the other, for seven days. And on the seventh day the battle was joined, and the sons of Israel [^p]killed _of_ the Arameans a hundred thousand foot soldiers in a single day. 







###### 30 



But the rest fled to Aphek into the city, and the wall fell on twenty-seven thousand men who were left. And Ben-hadad fled and came into the city, _going from one_ inner room to another. 







###### 31 



But his servants said to him, "Behold now, we have heard that the kings of the house of Israel are merciful kings. Please let's put sackcloth [^q]around our waists and ropes on our heads, and go out to the king of Israel; perhaps he will let [^r]you live." 







###### 32 



So they put sackcloth [^s]around their waists and ropes on their heads, and came to the king of Israel and said, "Your servant Ben-hadad says, 'Please let [^t]me live.'" And _Ahab_ said, "Is he still alive? He is my brother." 







###### 33 



Now the men took this as a _good_ omen, and quickly [^u]accepting it from him, they said, "Your brother Ben-hadad." Then he said, "Go, bring him." Then Ben-hadad came out to him, and he had him mount the chariot. 







###### 34 



And _Ben-hadad_ said to him, "The cities which my father took from your father I will restore, and you can make streets for yourself in Damascus, as my father made in Samaria." _Ahab said_, "And I will let you go with this covenant." So he made a covenant with him and let him go. 







###### 35 



Now a man from the sons of the prophets said to [^v]another by the word of the LORD, "Please strike me." But the man refused to strike him. 







###### 36 



Then he said to him, "Because you have not listened to the voice of the LORD, behold, as soon as you leave me, a lion will [^w]kill you." And _as soon as_ he left him a lion found him and [^x]killed him. 







###### 37 



Then he found another man and said, "Please strike me." And the man struck him, [^y]injuring him. 







###### 38 



So the prophet departed and waited for the king by the road, and disguised himself with a bandage over his eyes. 







###### 39 



And as the king passed by, he cried out to the king and said, "Your servant went out into the midst of the battle; and behold, a man turned aside and brought a man to me and said, 'Guard this man; if for any reason he goes missing, then your life shall be _forfeited_ in place of his life, or else you shall pay a [^z]talent of silver.' 







###### 40 



Now while your servant was busy here and there, he disappeared." And the king of Israel said to him, "So shall your judgment be; you yourself determined _it_." 







###### 41 



Then he quickly took the bandage away from his eyes, and the king of Israel recognized him, that he was _one_ of the prophets. 







###### 42 



And _the prophet_ said to him, "This is what the LORD says: 'Since you have let go from _your_ hand the man I had designated for destruction, your [^aa]life shall be _forfeited_ in place of his [^ab]life, and your people in place of his people.'" 







###### 43 



So the king of Israel went to his house sullen and furious, and came to Samaria. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Kings 20:4 Lit _your word_ [^b]: 1 Kings 20:5 Lit _this, saying_ [^c]: 1 Kings 20:10 I.e., what is left of Samaria after it is destroyed [^d]: 1 Kings 20:10 Lit are _at my feet_ [^e]: 1 Kings 20:12 Lit _he and_ [^f]: 1 Kings 20:12 Or _huts_ [^g]: 1 Kings 20:16 Or _huts_ [^h]: 1 Kings 20:16 Lit _he and the 32 kings_ [^i]: 1 Kings 20:18 I.e., to seek terms for surrender [^j]: 1 Kings 20:20 Lit _struck_ [^k]: 1 Kings 20:21 Lit _struck_ [^l]: 1 Kings 20:22 I.e., spring [^m]: 1 Kings 20:24 Lit _word_ [^n]: 1 Kings 20:25 Lit _count_ [^o]: 1 Kings 20:26 I.e., spring [^p]: 1 Kings 20:29 Lit _struck_ [^q]: 1 Kings 20:31 Lit _on_ [^r]: 1 Kings 20:31 Lit _your soul_ [^s]: 1 Kings 20:32 Lit _on_ [^t]: 1 Kings 20:32 Lit _my soul_ [^u]: 1 Kings 20:33 Lit _accepted_ [^v]: 1 Kings 20:35 Lit _his neighbor_ [^w]: 1 Kings 20:36 Lit _strike_ [^x]: 1 Kings 20:36 Lit _struck_ [^y]: 1 Kings 20:37 Lit _striking and injuring_ [^z]: 1 Kings 20:39 About 75 lb. or 34 kg [^aa]: 1 Kings 20:42 Lit _soul_ [^ab]: 1 Kings 20:42 Lit _soul_
