---
Aliases: [1 Samuel 31]
previous: ['1 Sam 30']
up: ['1 Samuel']
---
# 1 Samuel 31

***
















###### 1 







Now the Philistines fought against Israel, and the men of Israel fled before them and fell slain on Mount Gilboa. 















###### 2 







The Philistines overtook Saul and his sons; and they killed Jonathan and Abinadab and Malchi-shua, Saul's sons. 















###### 3 







The battle went heavily against Saul, and the archers hit him; and he was severely wounded by the archers. 















###### 4 







Saul said to his armor bearer, "Draw your sword and pierce me through with it, otherwise these uncircumcised [Philistines] will come and pierce me through and abuse _and_ mock me." But his armor bearer would not, because he was terrified [of doing such a thing]. So [^a]Saul took his sword and fell on it. 















###### 5 







When his armor bearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell on his sword and died with him. 















###### 6 







So Saul, his three sons, his armor bearer, and all his men died together on that day. 















###### 7 







When the men of Israel who were on the other side of the valley [of Jezreel], and those who were beyond the Jordan, saw that the _other_ men of Israel had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, they abandoned the cities and fled; then the Philistines came and lived in them. 















###### 8 







The next day, when the Philistines came to plunder the dead, they found Saul and his three sons fallen on Mount Gilboa. 















###### 9 







So they cut off Saul's head and stripped off his weapons _and_ armor and sent them throughout the land of the Philistines, to bring the good news to the house of their idols and to the people. 















###### 10 







And they put Saul's weapons _and_ armor in the temple of the Ashtaroth (female goddesses), and they fastened his body to the wall of Beth-shan. 















###### 11 







When the [^b]inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul, 















###### 12 







all the brave men stood and walked all night, and they took the bodies of Saul and his sons from the wall of Beth-shan, and they came to Jabesh and cremated them there. 















###### 13 







They took their bones and buried them under the tamarisk tree at Jabesh, and fasted [as a sign of mourning and respect] for seven days. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Samuel 31:4 In 2 Sam 1:10, an Amalekite claims to have killed Saul. [^b]: 1 Samuel 31:11 Saul had rescued Jabesh-gilead from the attack led by Nahash the Ammonite (ch 11). This act of kindness was a thoughtful expression of their profound gratitude.
