---
Aliases: [1 Samuel 16]
previous: ['1 Sam 15']
up: ['1 Samuel']
next: ['1 Sam 17']
---
# 1 Samuel 16

***
















###### 1 







The LORD said to Samuel, "How long will you grieve for Saul, when I have rejected him as king over Israel? [^a]Fill your horn with oil and go; I will send you to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have chosen a king for Myself among his sons." 















###### 2 







But Samuel said, "How can I go? When Saul hears _about it_, he will kill me." And the LORD said, "Take a heifer from the herd with you and say, 'I have come to sacrifice to the Lord.' 















###### 3 







You shall invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what you shall do [after that]; and you shall anoint for Me the one whom I designate." 















###### 4 







So Samuel did what the LORD said, and came to Bethlehem. And the elders of the city came trembling to meet him and said, "Do you come in peace?" 















###### 5 







And he said, "In peace; I have come to sacrifice to the LORD. Consecrate yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice." He also consecrated Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice. 















###### 6 







So it happened, when they had come, he looked at Eliab [the eldest son] and thought, "Surely the Lord's anointed is before Him." 















###### 7 







But the LORD said to Samuel, "Do not look at his appearance or at the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For the LORD sees not as man sees; for man looks [^b]at the outward appearance, but the LORD looks at the heart." 















###### 8 







Then Jesse called Abinadab and had him pass before Samuel. But Samuel said, "The LORD has not chosen this one either." 















###### 9 







Next Jesse had Shammah pass by. And Samuel said, "The LORD has not chosen him either." 















###### 10 







Jesse had seven of his sons pass before Samuel. But Samuel said to Jesse, "The LORD has not chosen [any of] these." 















###### 11 







Then Samuel said to Jesse, "Are all your sons here?" Jesse replied, "There is still one left, the youngest; he is tending the sheep." Samuel said to Jesse, "Send _word_ and bring him; because we will not sit down [to eat the sacrificial meal] until he comes here." ## David Anointed 















###### 12 







So Jesse sent _word_ and brought him in. Now he had a ruddy complexion, with beautiful eyes and a handsome appearance. The LORD said [to Samuel], "Arise, anoint him; for this is he." 















###### 13 







Then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed David in the presence of his brothers; and the Spirit of the LORD came mightily upon David from that day forward. And Samuel arose and went to Ramah. 















###### 14 







Now the Spirit of the LORD departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the Lord tormented _and_ terrified him. 















###### 15 







Saul's servants said to him, "Behold, an evil spirit from God is tormenting you. 















###### 16 







Let our lord now command your servants who are here before you to find a man who plays skillfully on the harp; and when the evil spirit from God is on you, he shall play _the harp_ with his hand, and you will be well." 















###### 17 







So Saul told his servants, "Find me a man who plays well and bring him to me." 















###### 18 







One of the young men said, "Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite who is a skillful musician, a brave _and_ competent man, a warrior, discerning (prudent, eloquent) in speech, and a handsome man; and the LORD is with him." 















###### 19 







So Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, "Send me David your son, who is with the flock." 















###### 20 







Jesse took a donkey [loaded with] bread and a jug of wine and a young goat, and sent them to Saul with David his son. 















###### 21 







Then David came to Saul and attended him. Saul loved him greatly and [later] David became his armor bearer. 















###### 22 







Saul sent _word_ to Jesse, saying, "Please let David [^c]be my attendant, for he has found favor in my sight." 















###### 23 







So it came about that whenever the [evil] spirit from God was on Saul, David took a harp and played it with his hand; so Saul would be refreshed and be well, and the evil spirit would leave him. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Samuel 16:1 Samuel’s horn was a receptacle for olive oil, which he would use to anoint a new king. [^b]: 1 Samuel 16:7 Lit _with the eyes_. [^c]: 1 Samuel 16:22 Lit _stand before me_.
