---
Aliases: [1 Samuel 18]
previous: ['1 Sam 17']
up: ['1 Samuel']
next: ['1 Sam 19']
---
# 1 Samuel 18

***
















###### 1 







When David had finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was bonded to the soul of David, and [^a]Jonathan loved him as himself. 















###### 2 







Saul took David that day and did not let him return to his father's house. 















###### 3 







Then Jonathan made a covenant with David because he loved him as himself. 















###### 4 







Jonathan stripped himself of the outer robe that he was wearing and gave it to David, with his armor, including his sword, his bow, and his belt. 















###### 5 







So David went out wherever Saul sent him, and he acted wisely _and_ prospered; and Saul appointed him over the men of war. And it pleased all the people and also Saul's servants. 















###### 6 







As they were coming [home], when David returned from killing the Philistine, the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet King Saul with tambourines, [songs of] joy, and [^b]musical instruments. 















###### 7 







The women sang as they played _and_ danced, saying, "Saul has slain his thousands, And David his ten thousands." 















###### 8 







Then Saul became very angry, for this saying [^c]displeased him; and he said, "They have ascribed to David ten thousands, but to me they have ascribed [only] thousands. Now what more can he have but the kingdom?" 















###### 9 







Saul looked at David with suspicion [and jealously] from that day forward. ## Saul Turns against David 















###### 10 







Now it came about on the next day that an evil spirit from God came forcefully on Saul, and he raved [madly] inside his house, while David was playing _the harp_ with his hand, as usual; and there was a spear in Saul's hand. 















###### 11 







Saul hurled the spear, for he thought, "I will pin David to the wall." But David evaded him twice. 















###### 12 







Now Saul was afraid of David, because the LORD was with him, but had departed from Saul. 















###### 13 







So Saul had David removed from his presence and appointed him as his commander of a thousand; and he [^d]publicly associated with the people. 















###### 14 







David acted wisely _and_ prospered in all his ways, and the LORD was with him. 















###### 15 







When Saul saw that he was prospering greatly, he was afraid of him. 















###### 16 







But all Israel and Judah loved David, because he publicly associated with them. 















###### 17 







Then Saul said to David, "Behold I will give you my older daughter Merab as a wife; only be brave for me and fight the Lord's battles." For Saul thought, "My hand shall not be against him, but let the hand of the Philistines be against him." 















###### 18 







David said to Saul, "Who am I, and what is my life or my father's family in Israel, that I should be the king's son-in-law?" 















###### 19 







But at the time when Merab, Saul's daughter, should have been given to David, she was [instead] given to Adriel the Meholathite as a wife. ## David Marries Saul's Daughter 















###### 20 







Now Michal, Saul's daughter, loved David; and when they told Saul, it pleased him. 















###### 21 







Saul said, "I will give her to him so that she may become a snare (bad influence, source of trouble) to him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him." So Saul said to David for a second time, "You shall be my son-in-law today." 















###### 22 







Then Saul commanded his servants, "Speak to David secretly, saying, 'Listen, the king delights in you, and all his servants love you; now then, become the king's son-in-law.'" 















###### 23 







So Saul's servants spoke these words to David. But David said, "Is it a trivial thing in your sight to become a king's son-in-law, seeing that I am a poor man and insignificant?" 















###### 24 







The servants of Saul told him what David said. 















###### 25 







Then Saul said, "This is what you shall say to David: 'The king wants no dowry except a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to take vengeance on the king's enemies.'" Now Saul's intention was to cause [^e]David's death at the hand of the Philistines. 















###### 26 







When his servants told David these words, it pleased him to become the king's son-in-law. Before the time [for the marriage] arrived, 















###### 27 







David arose and went, he and his men, and killed two hundred Philistine men, and David brought their foreskins [as proof of death] and presented [^f]every one of them to the king, so that he might become the king's son-in-law. So Saul gave him Michal, his [younger] daughter, as a wife. 















###### 28 







When Saul saw and knew that the LORD was with David, and that Michal, his daughter, loved him, 















###### 29 







Saul was even more afraid of David; and Saul became David's constant enemy. 















###### 30 







Then the Philistine commanders (princes) came out _to battle_, and it happened as often as they did, that David acted more wisely _and_ had more success than all Saul's servants. So his name was highly esteemed. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Samuel 18:1 David’s testimony before Saul and Jonathan’s response to hearing it established a friendship, admiration and loyalty that lasted beyond Jonathan’s death (2 Sam 9:1). [^b]: 1 Samuel 18:6 Lit _three-stringed_. [^c]: 1 Samuel 18:8 Lit _was evil in his eyes_. [^d]: 1 Samuel 18:13 Lit _went out and came in before_ and so throughout the chapter. [^e]: 1 Samuel 18:25 Lit _David to fall by_. [^f]: 1 Samuel 18:27 Lit _in full number_.
