---
Aliases: [1 Samuel 29]
previous: ['1 Sam 28']
up: ['1 Samuel']
next: ['1 Sam 30']
---
# 1 Samuel 29

***
















###### 1 







Now the Philistines gathered all their forces at Aphek, while Israel camped by the spring in Jezreel. 















###### 2 







As the Philistine lords (governors) were proceeding on [marching] by hundreds and by thousands, and David and his men were proceeding on in the rear with Achish [the king of Gath], 















###### 3 







the Philistine commanders [having noticed David] said, "What are these Hebrews _doing here_?" Achish said to the Philistine commanders, "Is this not David, the servant of Saul king of Israel, who has been with me these days and years, and I have found no fault in him from the day he deserted _to me_ to this day?" 















###### 4 







But the Philistine commanders were angry with Achish and they said to him, "Make this man return, so that he may go back to his place where you have assigned him, and do not let him go down to battle with us, or in the battle he may [turn and] become our adversary. For how could David reconcile himself to his lord [Saul]? _Would it_ not be with the heads of these [Philistine] men? 















###### 5 







Is this not David, of whom they used to sing in dances, 'Saul killed his thousands, And David his ten thousands'?" 















###### 6 







Then Achish called David and said to him, "As the LORD lives, you _have been_ upright (righteous), and your [^a]behavior in the army is pleasing in my sight. For from the day you came to me to this day I have found no evil in you. Nevertheless, [^b]the [Philistine] lords do not approve of you. 















###### 7 







So return now and go in peace [to your place], so that you do not displease the Philistine lords." 















###### 8 







David said to Achish, "But what have I done? What have you found in your servant from the day when I [first] came before you to this day, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?" 















###### 9 







Achish answered David, "I know that you are blameless in my sight, like an angel of God; nevertheless the commanders of the Philistines have said, 'He must not go up with us to the battle.' 















###### 10 







So now, get up early in the morning with your master's servants who have come with you, and as soon as you are up in the morning and have light, leave." 















###### 11 







So David and his men got up early to leave in the morning, to return to the land of the Philistines. But the Philistines went up to Jezreel [to fight against Israel]. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 1 Samuel 29:6 Lit _going out and your coming in_. [^b]: 1 Samuel 29:6 Lit _in the eyes of the lords you are not good_.
