---
Aliases: [1 Samuel 11]
previous: ['1 Sam 10']
up: ['1 Samuel']
next: ['1 Sam 12']
---
# 1 Samuel 11

***




###### 1 

About a month later,[^a] King Nahash of Ammon led his army against the Israelite town of Jabesh-gilead. But all the citizens of Jabesh asked for peace. "Make a treaty with us, and we will be your servants," they pleaded. 



###### 2 

"All right," Nahash said, "but only on one condition. I will gouge out the right eye of every one of you as a disgrace to all Israel!" 



###### 3 

"Give us seven days to send messengers throughout Israel!" replied the elders of Jabesh. "If no one comes to save us, we will agree to your terms." 



###### 4 

When the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul and told the people about their plight, everyone broke into tears. 



###### 5 

Saul had been plowing a field with his oxen, and when he returned to town, he asked, "What's the matter? Why is everyone crying?" So they told him about the message from Jabesh. 



###### 6 

Then the Spirit of God came powerfully upon Saul, and he became very angry. 



###### 7 

He took two oxen and cut them into pieces and sent the messengers to carry them throughout Israel with this message: "This is what will happen to the oxen of anyone who refuses to follow Saul and Samuel into battle!" And the LORD made the people afraid of Saul's anger, and all of them came out together as one. 



###### 8 

When Saul mobilized them at Bezek, he found that there were 300,000 men from Israel and 30,000[^b] men from Judah. 



###### 9 

So Saul sent the messengers back to Jabesh-gilead to say, "We will rescue you by noontime tomorrow!" There was great joy throughout the town when that message arrived! 



###### 10 

The men of Jabesh then told their enemies, "Tomorrow we will come out to you, and you can do to us whatever you wish." 



###### 11 

But before dawn the next morning, Saul arrived, having divided his army into three detachments. He launched a surprise attack against the Ammonites and slaughtered them the whole morning. The remnant of their army was so badly scattered that no two of them were left together. 



###### 12 

Then the people exclaimed to Samuel, "Now where are those men who said, 'Why should Saul rule over us?' Bring them here, and we will kill them!" 



###### 13 

But Saul replied, "No one will be executed today, for today the LORD has rescued Israel!" 



###### 14 

Then Samuel said to the people, "Come, let us all go to Gilgal to renew the kingdom." 



###### 15 

So they all went to Gilgal, and in a solemn ceremony before the LORD they made Saul king. Then they offered peace offerings to the LORD, and Saul and all the Israelites were filled with joy. ## About ## Help ## Our Network ## Social ## Preferences By submitting your email address, you understand that you will receive email communications from Bible Gateway, a division of The Zondervan Corporation, 501 Nelson Pl, Nashville, TN 37214 USA, including commercial communications and messages from partners of Bible Gateway. You may unsubscribe from Bible Gateway&rsquo;s emails at any time. If you have any questions, please review our [Privacy Policy] or email us at [privacy@biblegateway.com]. ## Preferences ### Footnotes [^a]: 11:1 As in Dead Sea Scroll 4QSam<sup>a</sup> and Greek version; Masoretic Text lacks _About a month later._ [^b]: 11:8 Dead Sea Scrolls and Greek version read _70,000._
