---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 10]
previous: ['1 Cor 9']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 11']
---
# 1 Corinthians 10

***














###### 1 






For I do not want you to be ignorant, brethren, that our forefathers were all under _and_ protected by the cloud [in which God's Presence went before them], and every one of them passed safely through the [Red] Sea, 













###### 2 






And each one of them [allowed himself also] to be baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea [they were thus brought under obligation to the Law, to Moses, and to the covenant, consecrated and set apart to the service of God]; 













###### 3 






And all [of them] ate the same spiritual (supernaturally given) food, 













###### 4 






And they all drank the same spiritual (supernaturally given) drink. For they drank from a spiritual Rock which followed them [produced by the sole power of God Himself without natural instrumentality], and the Rock was Christ. 













###### 5 






Nevertheless, God was not pleased with the great majority of them, for they were overthrown _and_ strewn down along [the ground] in the wilderness. 













###### 6 






Now these things are examples (warnings and admonitions) for us not to desire _or_ crave _or_ covet _or_ lust after evil _and_ carnal things as they did. 













###### 7 






Do not be worshipers of false gods as some of them were, as it is written, The people sat down to eat and drink [the sacrifices offered to the golden calf at Horeb] and rose to sport (to dance and give way to jesting and hilarity). 













###### 8 






We must not gratify evil desire _and_ indulge in immorality as some of them did--and twenty-three thousand [suddenly] fell _dead_ in a single day! 













###### 9 






We should not tempt the Lord [try His patience, become a trial to Him, critically appraise Him, and exploit His goodness] as some of them did--and were killed by poisonous serpents; 













###### 10 






Nor discontentedly complain as some of them did--and were put out of the way entirely by the destroyer (death). 













###### 11 






Now these things befell them by way of a figure [as an example and warning to us]; they were written to admonish _and_ fit us for right action by good instruction, we in whose days the ages have reached their climax (their consummation and concluding period). 













###### 12 






Therefore let anyone who thinks he stands [who feels sure that he has a steadfast mind and is standing firm], take heed lest he fall [into sin]. 













###### 13 






For no temptation (no trial regarded as enticing to sin), [no matter how it comes or where it leads] has overtaken you _and_ laid hold on you that is not common to man [that is, no temptation or trial has come to you that is beyond human resistance and that is not adjusted and adapted and belonging to human experience, and such as man can bear]. But God is faithful [to His Word and to His compassionate nature], and He [can be trusted] not to let you be tempted _and_ tried _and_ assayed beyond your ability _and_ strength of resistance _and_ power to endure, but with the temptation He will [always] also provide the way out (the means of escape to a landing place), that you may be capable _and_ strong _and_ powerful to bear up under it patiently. 













###### 14 






Therefore, my dearly beloved, shun (keep clear away from, avoid by flight if need be) any sort of idolatry (of loving or venerating anything more than God). 













###### 15 






I am speaking as to intelligent (sensible) men. Think over _and_ make up your minds [for yourselves] about what I say. [I appeal to your reason and your discernment in these matters.] 













###### 16 






The cup of blessing [of wine at the Lord's Supper] upon which we ask [God's] blessing, does it not mean [that in drinking it] we participate in _and_ share a fellowship (a communion) in the blood of Christ (the Messiah)? The bread which we break, does it not mean [that in eating it] we participate in _and_ share a fellowship (a communion) in the body of Christ? 













###### 17 






For we [no matter how] numerous we are, are one body, because we all partake of the one Bread [the One Whom the communion bread represents]. 













###### 18 






Consider those [physically] people of Israel. Are not those who eat the sacrifices partners of the altar [united in their worship of the same God]? 













###### 19 






What do I imply then? That food offered to idols is [intrinsically changed by the fact and amounts to] anything _or_ that an idol itself is a [living] thing? 













###### 20 






No, I am suggesting that what the pagans sacrifice they offer [in effect] to demons (to evil spiritual powers) and not to God [at all]. I do not want you to fellowship _and_ be partners with diabolical spirits [by eating at their feasts]. 













###### 21 






You cannot drink the Lord's cup and the demons' cup. You cannot partake of the Lord's table and the demons' table. 













###### 22 






Shall we thus provoke the Lord to jealousy _and_ anger _and_ indignation? Are we stronger than He [that we should defy Him]? 













###### 23 






All things are legitimate [permissible--and we are free to do anything we please], but not all things are helpful (expedient, profitable, and wholesome). All things are legitimate, but not all things are constructive [to character] _and_ edifying [to spiritual life]. 













###### 24 






Let no one then seek his own good _and_ advantage _and_ profit, but [rather] each one of the other [let him seek the welfare of his neighbor]. 













###### 25 






[As to meat offered to idols] eat anything that is sold in the meat market without raising any question _or_ investigating on the grounds of conscientious scruples, 













###### 26 






For the [whole] earth is the Lord's and everything that is in it. 













###### 27 






In case one of the unbelievers invites you to a meal and you want to go, eat whatever is served to you without examining into its source because of conscientious scruples. 













###### 28 






But if someone tells you, This has been offered in sacrifice to an idol, do not eat it, out of consideration for the person who informed you, and for conscience's sake-- 













###### 29 






I mean for the sake of his conscience, not yours, [do not eat it]. For why should another man's scruples apply to me _and_ my liberty of action be determined by his conscience? 













###### 30 






If I partake [of my food] with thankfulness, why am I accused _and_ spoken evil of because of that for which I give thanks? 













###### 31 






So then, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you may do, do all for the honor _and_ glory of God. 













###### 32 






Do not let yourselves be [hindrances by giving] an offense to the Jews or to the Greeks or to the church of God [do not lead others into sin by your mode of life]; 













###### 33 






Just as I myself strive to please [to accommodate myself to the opinions, desires, and interests of others, adapting myself to] all men in everything I do, not aiming at _or_ considering my own profit _and_ advantage, but that of the many in order that they may be saved.
