---
Aliases: [1 Corinthians 13]
previous: ['1 Cor 12']
up: ['1 Corinthians']
next: ['1 Cor 14']
---
# 1 Corinthians 13

***














###### 1 






If I [can] speak in the tongues of men and [even] of angels, but have not love (that reasoning, intentional, spiritual devotion such [^a]as is inspired by God's love for and in us), I am only a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. 













###### 2 






And if I have prophetic powers ([^b]the gift of interpreting the divine will and purpose), and understand all the secret truths _and_ mysteries and possess all knowledge, and if I have [sufficient] faith so that I can remove mountains, but have not love (God's love in me) I am nothing (a useless nobody). 













###### 3 






Even if I dole out all that I have [to the poor in providing] food, and if I surrender my body to be burned _or_ [^c]_in order that I may glory_, but have not love (God's love in me), I gain nothing. 













###### 4 






Love endures long _and_ is patient and kind; love never is envious _nor_ boils over with jealousy, is not boastful _or_ vainglorious, does not display itself haughtily. 













###### 5 






It is not conceited (arrogant and inflated with pride); it is not rude (unmannerly) _and_ does not act unbecomingly. Love (God's love in us) does not insist on its own rights _or_ its own way, _for_ it is not self-seeking; it is not touchy _or_ fretful _or_ resentful; it takes no account of the evil done to it [it pays no attention to a suffered wrong]. 













###### 6 






It does not rejoice at injustice _and_ unrighteousness, but rejoices when right _and_ truth prevail. 













###### 7 






Love bears up under anything _and_ everything that comes, is ever ready to believe the best of every person, its hopes are fadeless under all circumstances, and it endures everything [without weakening]. 













###### 8 






Love never fails [never fades out or becomes obsolete or comes to an end]. As for prophecy ([^d]the gift of interpreting the divine will and purpose), it will be fulfilled _and_ pass away; as for tongues, they will be destroyed _and_ cease; as for knowledge, it will pass away [it will lose its value and be superseded by truth]. 













###### 9 






For our knowledge is fragmentary (incomplete and imperfect), and our prophecy (our teaching) is fragmentary (incomplete and imperfect). 













###### 10 






But when the complete _and_ perfect (total) comes, the incomplete _and_ imperfect will vanish away (become antiquated, void, and superseded). 













###### 11 






When I was a child, I talked like a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child; now that I have become a man, I am done with childish ways _and_ have put them aside. 













###### 12 






For now we are looking in a mirror that gives only a dim (blurred) reflection [of reality as [^e]in a riddle or enigma], but then [when perfection comes] we shall see in reality _and_ face to face! Now I know in part (imperfectly), but then I shall know _and_ understand [^f]fully _and_ clearly, even in the same manner as I have been [^g]fully _and_ clearly known _and_ understood [[^h]by God]. 













###### 13 






And so faith, hope, love abide [faith--conviction and belief respecting man's relation to God and divine things; hope--joyful and confident expectation of eternal salvation; love--true affection for God and man, growing out of God's love for and in us], these three; but the greatest of these is love.
